



Public Administration Circular : 17/2022 

 

 

 

My NO : M. S. O/Su/Tra/2022 
Ministry of Public Administration,Home Affairs, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government, 
 

            Independence Square 

Colombo 07. 

            08.09.2022 

       

 

Secretaries to Ministries 
District Secretaries/Government Agents 
Heads of Departments 
 
 

ANNUAL TRANSFERS OF OFFICERS IN SUPRA CLASS OF 

MANAGEMENT SERVICES OFFICER - 2023 

 
 
Your  attention  is  hereby  drawn  to  the  provisions  in  Chapter  XVIII  of  Procedural  Rules 
(Volume 1) published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Public Services Commission No 
1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 on transfers of public officers.  
 

02.  Annual  transfers  in  respect  of  officers  in  Supra  Grade  of  Management  Services 
Officers’ Service belonging to Combined Service shall be effective from 2nd of January 
2023.  The  following  procedure  should  be  followed  in  this  regard,  in  order  to  avoid 
inconvenience to the officers concerned and to the Public Service. 

 

03.  The  Transfer  Board  shall  be  held  at  the  Ministry  of  Public  Administration,  Home 
Affairs,  Provincial  Councils  and  Local  Government  and  the  decisions  on  transfers 
among  all  Ministries,  Departments,  District  Secretariats,  Divisional  Secretariats  and 
other institutions shall be made by the board. 

 

04.  The  transfer  procedure  attached  herewith  shall  be  followed  in  taking  decisions  on 

matters such as eligibility of officers for transfers. 

 

05.  Officers,  who  have  completed  a  service  period  of  5  years  at  a  popular  service  station 
shall  be  subjected  to  compulsory  transfer  and  officers,  who  have  completed  a  service 
period of 02 years at any other service station shall become eligible for transfers. 

 

06. 



In  order  to  consider  any  appeals  made  against  respective  proposed  annual  transfers, 
Committees  to  review  annual  transfer  proposals  should  be  set  up  in  terms  of  Section 
210 in Chapter XVIII of Procedural Rules of Public Services Commission published in 
the  Gazette  Extra  Ordinary  no  1589/30  and  necessary  action  should  be  taken 
accordingly.  Appeals submitted in respect of annual transfers shall be considered only 





if they conform to Section 211, Chapter XVIII of Procedural Rules of Public Services 
Commission published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary No: 1589/30. 



 

07.    Committees to review annual transfer proposals set up to consider appeals made against 
transfer  orders  shall  take  decisions  after  investigations  are  made  on  the  matters 
mentioned below. 

-  Transfers made against the transfer policy. 
- 

Instances where requests of officers were not fulfilled (The service 
stations 1,2 and 3 on the preference shall be treated as requests) 

-  Transfer orders given against the requests of the officers concerned 
-     If credible recommendations have been submitted regarding 

sympathetic situations such as unexpected calamities/ 
accidents/disasters/ illnesses faced by officers after the transfer 
application has been submitted 

 

08.  Applications for mutual transfers shall not be accepted during the period from 15th  of 

September 2022 to 31st of December 2022. 

 

09.  The timetable relating to the officers in Supra Grade of Management Services Officers’ 

Service is mentioned in Section 7 of the transfer procedure. 

 

10.  All officers can submit applications online as follows. 

 

i. 

internet  access 

If  you  have 
through  LGN,  you  can  apply  online  at 
http://10.250.1.112:misco and if  you have internet  access through other  networks, 
you can apply for annual transfers online at http://43.224.125.68:misco 

 
ii.  It is essential that all officers update all their basic information as well as the service 

records pertaining to the period of service in the previous workplaces. 

11.  Heads  of  Institutions  /  Departments  should  ensure  that  accurate  and  complete 
information  is  provided  about  each  officer.  If  it  is  revealed  that  there  is  inaccurate 
information,  the  heads  of  the  relevant  institutions  /  departments  and  the officers  who 
prepared  the  lists  and  corrected  the  mistakes  are  liable  and  shall  be  subjected  to 
disciplinary action. 

12.  Officers  transferred  out  of  a  Ministry/Department  by  the  Transfer  Board  shall  not  be 
retained  awaiting  replacements  and  they  shall  be  released  to  enable  them  to  assume 
duties at their new service stations on the date stipulated. 

 

13.  The following is the timetable effective for annual transfers of officers in Supra Grade 

of Management Officers’ Service, relevant to year 2023.   

 









Before 15th of September 
 
Before 01st of October 
 

Before 10th of October 
 
Before 15th of October 
Before 01st of November 

Before 10th of November 

Before 01st of December 

02nd of January 2023 

 

the 

to 

the 

following  documents 

Publishing  Transfer  Procedure  /  Circular  and 
calling for applications 
Submitting 
Director General of Combined Services 
(i)  Printed  copies  of  the  transfer  application 
recommended  by  the  Head  of  the  Institution 
along with the official stamp and the signature 
after submitting the application form online at 
http://10.250.1.112:misco if internet facility is 
available 
at 
http://43.224.125.68:misco  if  internet  facility 
is available through other networks.  

through 

LGN 

and 

(ii)  A  list  of  the  officers,  who  have  served  in  an 
institution  for  more  than  05  years  and  the 
officers  who  have  applied  for  transfers  as  at 
31/12/2022 obtained online. 

Completing the process of making decisions by the 
transfer boards 
Notifying transfer orders 

Submitting  appeals  on  transfers  to  the  Combined 
Services Division  

Communicating the decisions of the Appeal Board 
and issuance of annual transfer orders. 
Submitting  appeals 
Commission 

the  Public  Service 

to 

Date  on  which  the  annual  transfer  orders  shall  be 
implemented 

 
14. 

 

Action should be taken to make officers in Supra Grade at your Ministry / Department 
aware of the provisions indicated in this circular. 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sgd/ M.M.P.K. Mayadunne 

Secretary 

Ministry of  Public Administration, Home Affairs, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

         
 
 



 





ANNUAL TRANSFER PROCEDURE OF SUPRA GRADE OF MANAGEMENT 

SERVICES OFFICERS’ SERVICE  (COMBINED SERVICE) 



 

 01.  Annual  Transfer  Procedure  of  the  officers  in  Supra  Grade  of  Management  Services 
Officers’  Service  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of  Rule  202,  Chapter  XVIII  of  Procedural 
Rules  (Volume  1)  published  by  the  Public  Services  Commission  in  the  Gazette 
Extraordinary  No:  1589/30  dated  20.02.2009  and  the  powers  vested  by  the  Gazette 
Extraordinary No: 1955/22 dated 25.02.2016. 

 

 

02.  Transfers  of  officers  in  Supra  Grade  of  Management  Services  Officers’  Service  in  the 

Combined Services shall be made in the following manner :- 

 

 

(a)  Transfers by Transfer Boards (Annual Transfers) 

Transfer Boards shall be held annually with a view to fulfill the requests made by 
officers  for  transfers.    In  addition  to  that,  a  decision  can  be  made  by  a  Transfer 
Board  to  transfer  an  officer,  who  has  completed  the  prescribed  period  in  a  certain 
service station/area, in order to meet a reasonable request made by an officer or to 
implement  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Secretaries  of  Ministries  on 
administrative grounds.  Such transfers shall be effective from the first working day 
of the year. 

(b) Transfers by Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial 

Councils and Local Government (Transfers other than Annual Transfers) 

 

Transfers  shall  be  made  purely  by  the  Transfer  Boards,  but  not  under  ordinary 
functions  of  the  Combined  Service  Division.    However,  the  Secretary,  Public 
Administration,  Home  Affairs,  Provincial  Councils  and  Local  Government  shall 
issue  transfer  orders  on  administrative  and  service  requirements  as  well  as  on 
disciplinary grounds. Further, necessary action shall be taken on requests made for 
mutual transfers, which do not cause hindrance to normal duties and the requests of 
which  contents  shall  be  considered  on  urgent  and  sympathetic  grounds,  if  such 
requests  are  forwarded  along  with  the  observations  and  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary of the respective Ministry. 

02.1 

Transfer from one Ministry to another Ministry  

 



     When  an  officer  is  transferred  from  one  Ministry  to  another  Ministry,  the  request  of 
the Secretary of the Ministry where the vacancy exists, shall be sent to the Secretary 
of the Ministry Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local 
Government. For this purpose, the transfer orders shall be issued by the Secretary of 
the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local 
Government to the Ministry where such vacancy exists,  considering the concurrence 
of  the  Secretary    of  the  line  Ministry  where  the  officer  who  requests  transfer,  is 
attached.  

 

 





02.2 

 



Transfers among Departments within one and the same Ministry 
 
The  Secretary  of  the  respective  Line  Ministry  shall  forward  recommendations  on 
proposed transfers to the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial  Councils  and  Local  Government.  The  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government shall grant 
approval for relevant transfers considering the recommendations.  

02.3        Transfers within one and the same Departments 

 

 

 

The Head of the Department shall forward the proposals for transfers to the Secretary  
of  the  relevant  Line  Ministry.  Accordingly,  once  the  Secretary  of  the  respective 
Ministry approves the transfer requested, it shall be informed to the Secretary, Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.  

02..4      Transfers on special official requirements and urgent service requirements. 

 
The Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils 
and Local Government shall reserve the right to transfer an officer or make temporary 
attachment,  without  obtaining  the  consent  and  without  any  request  of  the  officer 
concerned, depending on administrative and service requirements.  

 

03. 

Composition  of  the  Transfer  Committee  for  Supra  Grade  of  Management  Services 
Officers’ Service.  

 

 
 

Three  Staff  Officers  including  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  establishment 
activities  of  the  service,  nominated  by  the  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government 
(One officer shall be the officer nominated to the Appeal Board)  

One  representative  from  each  Trade  Union,  which  has  a  membership  not 
less than 15% of the  total cadre of Supra  Grade  in  Management Services 
Officers’ Service 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Or 

A  representative  from  trade  union  of  which  an  officer  has  been  released 
fulltime for trade union activities.  
 
Chairman  of  the  Transfer  Committee  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Secretary 
of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Administration,  Home  Affairs,  Provincial 
Councils and Local Government. 

04.         Committee for reviewing annual transfers  

 

4.1 



The Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils 
and  Local  Government  shall  appoint  a  Committee  for  reviewing  annual  transfers 
chaired by the Director General, Combined Services to examine the complaints made 





against the decisions of the Transfer Committee and the requests which have not been 
fulfilled at the Transfer Committee.  



 

04.2 

The composition of the Committee for reviewing annual transfers is as follows; 

   

 
 
 

 

 

Chairman :  Director General of Combined Services. 

Two members nominated by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home 
Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government: 

(I) 

An  officer  from  Sri  Lanka  Administrative  Service  serving  attached  to 
Combined  Services  Division  of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Administration, 
Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.  

(II)  An  officer  from  Sri  Lanka  Administrative  Service  serving  attached  to 

another Department, which does not belong to Combined Services. 

Note    :-  One  of  these  officers  shall  be  an  officer,  who  had  served  in  the  Transfer 

Committee. 

04.3 

Committee  for  reviewing  annual  transfers  shall  make  decisions  after  examining  the 
following matters. 
 

Instances where the request of the officer has not been fulfilled. 

  Transfers which do not comply with transfer policy. 
 
  Requests, recommendations and complaints made to the Secretary, Ministry of 
Public  Administration,  Home  Affairs,  Provincial  Councils  and  Local 
Government by the Secretaries of respective Ministries regarding the transfer. 

 

05. 

 

5.1 

5.2  

5.3  

 

5.4  

 



General policies to be considered in making transfers. 

 Time  of  Transfer  in  connection  to  Annual  Transfers  shall  be  calculated  on  31st 
December in the previous year.  (31.12.2022 for the Annual Transfers in year 2023). 

 

When calculating the period of service, first day of January of the  year  in which the 
officer reported for duty should be treated as the first day of his service.  However, the 
date of reporting for duty is a subsequent date owing to the circumstance beyond his 
control, the Transfer Committee shall take that into consideration. 

 

When calculating the period of service, the total periods of service or with break in a 
Department/Ministry or District shall be considered as one period of service.   

When calculating the period of service in popular service stations, 15 years of service 
immediately  preceding  shall  be  taken  into  account  although  such  periods  of  service 
fall  under  one  or  several  popular  service  stations.  (Service  Stations  which  were 
identified as popular service stations during that period). 





5.5  

5.6  

5.7 

5.8.1 

5.8.2 

 

5.8.3 

 

5.9.1 



The period of service in  any district under a Department/Ministry  shall be treated as 
the  period  of  service  in  such  Department/Ministry.  When  calculating  the  period  of 
service  in  a  district,  the  period  of  service  in  any  office  in  the  district  shall  be  taken 
into account. 

 

When  calculating  the  period  of  service  in  a  popular  service  station,  the  period  of 
service in a popular service station during the officer’s period of service in Grade II 
and  Grade  I  of  Management  Services  Officers’  Service  shall  also  be  taken  into 
account. 

 

 When calculating the service of an officer in a Department, the period in which the 
officer  was  not  in  service  due  to  reasons  beyond  his  control  shall  not  be  taken  into 
consideration. 

 

An officer who has possessed 05 years of service in a popular service station/02 years 
of service in an unpopular service station shall be eligible for a transfer. 
 
At  the  instances  where  an  officer  who  has  not  completed  the  prescribed  period  at  a 
popular service station, applies for a transfer to an unpopular service station, he shall 
be entitled to such transfer subject to exigency of service. 

Officers who have served more than 5 years in one and the same service station shall 
be subjected to transfer. 

Even  though  the  officers  beyond  54  years  of  age  as  at  31st  of  December,  (As  at 
31.12.2022  for  the  Annual  Transfers  in  year  2023),  the  date  of  calculating  time  for 
annual  transfers,  can be  transferred to  a service station  within the district, they  shall 
not be transferred out of the district without their request. 

5.9.2     Even though the officers beyond 59 years of age (Officers at the age of 59 years) as at 
31st of December, (As at 31.12.2022 for the Annual Transfers in year 2023), the date 
of  calculating  time  for  annual  transfers,  shall  not  be  transferred  even  within  the 
district unless they make a request. 
 
If  the  Secretary,  Chairman,  Treasurer  and  Executive  members  of  the  central 
committee of a Trade Union recognized by the Director General of Combined Service 
are  transferred,  such  transfer  shall  be  made,  so  as  not  to  affect  the  activities  of  the 
Trade  Union  and  considering  the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Trade 
Union.    However  this  shall  not  be  applicable  for  transfers  made  out  of  popular 
Departments. 

5.10. 

5.11  

Officers  in  Trade  Unions,  who  expect  to  enjoy  the  concessions  indicated  in  section 
7.1, Chapter XXV of Establishments Code, shall prepare an application in this regard 
and submit to the Director General of Combined Services through the Secretary of the 
respective Trade Union at least two weeks before the meeting of Transfer Committees 
(In  terms  of  Sub-Section  7:5).    The  requests  made  after  that  period  shall  not  be 
considered.   









 

5.12  Where an officer forwards written evidence to prove that his/her spouse has become 
disabled whilst serving in the Armed Forces or in Police in the Northern and Eastern 
Provinces (Operational areas), such officer shall be transferred only at his/her request.  
Also, priority shall be granted to the requests for transfers made by such officers.   

 

Generally, every possible step shall be taken to transfer an officer, at his/her request, 
to  a  service  station  close  to  the  area,  where  the  service  station  of  the  spouse  is 
situated. 

 

 When  making  transfers,  requests  made  by  officers  along  with  the  recommendations 
of  the  respective  Head  of  Department  including  acceptable  reasons  such  as  disabled 
children  and  spouse  paralyzed  due  to  long  term  illnesses  should  be  taken  into 
consideration. 

As  far  as  possible,  every  transfer  shall  be  implemented  with  effect  from  01st  of 
January  each  year  so  as  to  avoid  any  inconvenience  which  may  affect  schooling    of  
children. 

5.13 

5.14 

 

5.15 

  

5.16  When selecting officers  for the  services at  unpopular service stations, attention shall 
be  paid  as  far  as  possible  to  select  unmarried  officers  and  officers  who  are  married, 
but  do  not  have  children  at  the  age  of  schooling,  rather  than  married  officers  with 
children at the age of schooling.  

 

5.17  

Only transfer applications and appeals in connection to transfers, which are submitted 
strictly in accordance with the Specimen Form, shall be considered. 

5.18  

5.19 

06. 

 

6.1.1 

 

If  case  where  the  officers,  who  apply  for  a  transfer,  expect  to  be  transferred  to  a 
specific service station in a certain area, may indicate the name of the service station 
and area.  It is appropriate to indicate the requirement of the officer in the application, 
whether the application is made with the expectation of going to a certain area or to a 
Department  or  office  of  his/  her  choice.    Accordingly,  the  names  of  the  areas  and 
offices shall be indicated in order of preference. 

 

The officer has no  right  to  appeal  for the  cancellation or  postponement  of a transfer 
made  on  his/  her  request  and  the  Head  of  Department  has  also  no  right  to  make 
recommendations on the same. 

Classification of Service Stations  

The  names  identified  as  popular  service  stations/areas  are  published  annually 
according  to  the  services.  These  service  stations/areas  can  vary  from  time  to  time 
depending  on  the  responses  of  officers.  A  list  of  Departments  identified  as  popular 
service stations is indicated under Schedule – 01 in Annex 01. 
 







6.1.2 



Even though a request has been made for a transfer to an office mentioned in second 
schedule,  action  shall  be  taken  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Head  of  Department 
indicated in the schedule before issuing the transfer order. 
 

6:2        An officer who has served a period of 5 years at a popular service station shall again be 

transferred to another popular service station only if there are no other requests. 
 

      6:3        Secretaries of the Ministries and Heads of Departments should take action to prepare 
and send the report of the officers who have completed more than 05 years of service 
in all the Ministries and Departments online as follows. 

i.  You  can  use  the  web  address  http://10.250.1.112:misco  if  you  have  internet 
access  through  LGN  and  http://43.224.125.68:misco  if  you  have  internet 
access through other networks. 
It is advisable to use the "Chrome" web browser to access the web addresses 
listed above. 

ii. 

 

6:4      In case where an officer, who has served at an unpopular service station, requests for a 
transfer, the officer who has served the maximum period at the said service station and 
satisfied the requirements indicated in sub-sections 6:2 and 6:3 may be transferred. 

 

6.5 

 

 When making transfers to popular service stations, priority shall be given to those who 
are  serving  at  unpopular  service  stations.  Further,  the  period  of  service  as  well  as  the 
difficulties faced by such officers shall be taken into consideration, if brought to notice. 
Relevant officers shall take action to submit necessary information accordingly.  

6.6  When the officers indicated in sub sections 6:3 and 6:4 are transferred, attempts shall be 
made  as  far  as  possible  to  transfer  them  to  one  of  the  03  service  stations  they  have 
indicated on 
the  order  of  preference.  If  it  is  not  possible,  they  shall  be  transferred  to  the  nearest 
service station. Officers shall see to provide necessary information in this regard. 

 

6.7 

The Heads of Departments shall see to implement annual transfers on the effective date, 
by taking action to train  other officers to perform duties of the officers expected to be 
transferred. 

 

6.8     Disciplinary action shall be taken without any notice against officers who do not follow 
or implement annual transfer orders, if the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, 
Home  Affairs,  Provincial  Councils  and  Local  Government  is  reported  regarding  such 
situation.   

 

7.0        Time  table  to  be  followed  in  implementing  the  annual  transfer  policy  relating  to  the 

officers in Supra Grade of Management Services Officers’ Service. 

   







Before 15th of September 
 
Before 01st of October 
 

Publishing  Transfer  Procedure  /  Circular  and  calling 
for applications 
Submitting  the  following  documents  to  the  Director 
General of Combined Services 

(i)  Printed  copies  of  the  transfer  application 
recommended by the Head of the Institution along 
with  the  official  stamp  and  the  signature  after 
submitting 
form  online  at 
http://10.250.1.112:misco  if  internet  facility  is 
available 
at 
http://43.224.125.68:misco  if  internet  facility  is 
available through other networks.  

the  application 

through 

LGN 

and 

Before 10th of October 
 
Before 15th of October 
Before 01st of November 

Before 10th of November 

Before 01st of December 
01st of January 

(ii)  A  list  of  the  officers,  who  have  served  in  an 
institution for more than 05  years and the officers 
who  have  applied  for  transfers  as  at  31/12/2022 
obtained online. 

Completing  the  process  of  making  decisions  by  the 
transfer boards 
Notice of transfer orders 

Submitting  appeals  on  transfers  to  the  Combined 
Services Division  

Communicating the decisions of the Appeal Board and 
issuance of annual transfer orders. 
Submitting appeals to the Public Service Commission 

Date  on  which  the  annual  transfer  orders  shall  be 
implemented 



 

8.       Details on submission of appeals against Annual Transfer Orders  

 

8.1      If  a  public  officer  submits  an  appeal  to  the  Public  Service  Commission  against  any 
transfer  order,  it  shall  be  submitted  only  in  line with  form  3a  and  3b.  Further,  he  shall 
take action to submit certified copies of the relevant documents along with the appeal to 
prove the matters he/ she submits. 

 

8.2      A  public  officer  shall  submit  an  appeal  to  the  Public  Service  Commission  through  the 
Secretary of the relevant Ministry and a copy of the relevant appeal shall be forwarded to 
the  Secretary  of  the  relevant  Ministry.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Secretary  of  the 
relevant  Ministry  to  submit  the  appeal  to  the  Public  Service  Commission  immediately 
after receiving. The officer, on his/ her discretion can directly submit a copy of his/her 
appeal to the Public Service Commission.  

 

8.3   Any appeal against the transfer order should be submitted by the Public Officer within 14 
days of receiving the transfer order. Appeals not submitted within the due period shall be 
rejected by the Public Service Commission. 







 



8.4    The  appeal  submitted  by  a  Public  Officer  to  be  forwarded  to  the  Public  Service 
Commission shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Public Service Commission by the 
Secretary of the relevant Ministry within 15 days of the receipt of the appeal along with 
all  relevant  files,  documents,  minutes  and  observations  and  recommendations  in  this 
regard.  However,  appeals  mentioned  in  Chapter  XVIII  of  the  Procedural  Rules  of  the 
Public Service Commission shall be submitted to the Public Service Commission before 
the  01st  of  December  of  the  respective  year  along  with  the  relevant  files,  documents, 
minutes, observations and recommendations.  

 

8.5   It is the responsibility of every Public Officer to submit the appeals in accordance with the 
orders  in  this  chapter  and  the  appeals  submitted  deviating  from  these  orders  are  not 
considered by the Public Service Commission.  

 

8.6      A  decision  shall  be  made  by  the  Public  Service  Commission  with  regard  to  the  appeals 
submitted by the public  officers against a transfer order within 15 days of receiving the 
documents mentioned in Section 8.4 above. 

 

8.7  The decision made by the Public Service Commission with regard to an appeal submitted 
as above, shall be directly informed to the appellant and copies of the same shall be sent 
to the Secretary of the relevant Ministry.  

 

8.8      Any  public  officer  who  is  not  satisfied  with  an  order  or  a  decision  made  by  the  Public 
Service Commission is entitled to submit an appeal to Administrative Appeal Tribunal in 
line with the provisions in Administrative Appeal Tribunal Act No: 04 of 2002.  

On the order of Public Service Commission, 

 

 
 

        Sgd/ M.M.P.K. Mayadunne 

         Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

 

 
 
 
 
Date :  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 

 

 

 

 

Official Stamp:  







                                                               Schedule - 01 

Popular Service Stations 

 

 

 

 



01. 
02. 
03. 
04. 
05. 
06. 
07. 
08. 
 

01. 
02. 
03. 
04. 
05. 
06. 
07. 

Department of Customs. 
Department of Inland Revenue. 
Department of Immigration and Emigration.  
Commission to Investigate into Allegations of Bribery or Corruption 
Public Services Commission. 
Department of Excise. 
Department of Commissioner of Motor Traffic. 
Department of Wildlife Conservation. 

Departments to which the transfers are made subject to prior approval 

  Schedule - 02 

President Secretariat. 
Office of the Hon. Prime Minister. 
Cabinet Office 
Office of the Lader of the Opposition. 
Public Services Commission. 
Commission to Investigate into Allegations of Bribery or Corruption. 
Election Commission. 
 

 



