Public Administration Circular letter : 02/2014 

 

         

     

 

Secretaries to Ministries 

Chief Provincial Secretaries 

Heads of Departments 

 

My No: EST/5/1/3 

Ministry of Public Administration 

and Home Affairs 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07 

 

06.05.2014 

Conversion of Salary at Promotion 

 

When a Public officer is promoted to a certain post, or from a certain class of a post to another 

class,  salary  shall  be  converted  in  terms  of  the  provisions  in  Section  5  of  Chapter  VII  of  the 

Establishments  Code.  It  has  been  decided  at  the  meeting  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  held  on 

31.10.2013 to remove the salary anomalies occurred in the conversion of salary, due to granting 

a higher salary step to the officers promoted later on the date of salary increment by earning the 

salary  increment  of  previous  Post/  Class/  Grade  comparatively  to  the  officers  promoted  on  a 

date different to the date of salary increment of previous Post/Class/Grade. 

 

02. 

Accordingly, the requests  for obtaining  necessary approval to remove salary  anomalies 

shall  be  submitted  to  the  Director  General  of  Establishments  along  with  the  following 

particulars in respect of officers subjected to anomalies as mentioned in the Para 01 above. 

 

i. 

The post and Class/ Grade the officer held, prior to promotion. 

ii.  

  Salary scale and salary steps to which the officer was entitled, prior to promotion. 

iii.     Date of increment, prior to promotion. 

iv.     Date of promotion 

v.  

  Post and Class/ Grade, to which the officer was promoted. 

vi.     Salary conversion related to the promotion 

vii.   Above particulars from i to vi in respect of the officer with whom a comparison is 

made, in order to prove the occurrence of salary anomaly of officer. 

 

03.  The  requests  for  removal  of  such  salary  anomalies  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Director 

General of Establishments along with a certificate of a competent authority to the effect that all 

the salary conversions made in respect of the relevant officers up to the date of promotion are 

accurate. 

 

 

                          Sgd / P.B. Abeykoon 
                                   Secretary 

          Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs 

 

 

 

