 
 
Public Administration Circular : 14/2021 

 

 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments  
Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards 
 

My No: IAD/ADM/GA02/Sports-Youth Affairs 
Ministry of Public Services, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 

30.06.2021 

Declaring National Sports Day 

 
As per the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 30.03.2021, it has been decided to declare 
31st  July  2021,  on  which  Mr.  Duncan  White  won  the  Silver  Medal  at  the  Olympics,  as  the 
National Sports Day of Sri Lanka in every year with effect from year 2021. The objective of 
declaring a National Sports Day is to create an efficient and productive human resource. 
 
02. 
Even though 31st July 2021 has been declared as the National Sports Day, the 31st of 
July of this year falls on a Saturday and therefore, it has been informed by the Secretary of the 
Ministry  of  Sports  that  it  is  appropriate  to  conduct  relevant  sports  promotion  and  physical 
fitness programmes on Friday, the 30th July considering the day as the National Sports Day.    
 
Following the actions took in accordance with Public Administration Circular 06/2020, 
03. 
with  a  view  of  providing  an  efficient  and  effective  public  service  by  creating  a  healthy 
generation  of  public  employees,  arrangements  should  be  made  in  this  year  as  well  to 
implement  the  following  programs  from  8.30  am  on  July  30,  2021  at  all  public  institutions. 
Appropriate  programs  should  be  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  health  guidelines 
issued by the Ministry of Health in the face of the spread of the Covid 19 virus currently 
experienced by the country. 
 

i.  Hoisting  the  National  Flag  by  the  Head  of  the  Institution  or  the  Office  in  front  of 

the staff members.  
 
Singing of National Anthem after hoisting the national flag. 
 

ii. 

iii.  Conducting  a  short  lecture  for  the  officers  in  the  institution  on  the  importance  of 
exercise,  local  food  and  nutrition  in  order  to  provide  effective  service  through  a 
healthy life. 
 

iv.  Conducting  a  simple  exercise  program  (15  minutes)  in  which  the  officers  of  the 

institution can participate in office attire. 

 
 
 
 

 
 
You  are  kindly  requested  to  take  the  lead  in  implementing  the  above  programs  to 
04. 
achieve the goal of creating an efficient and productive human resource by creating a healthy 
generation. 
 
05. 
further information in this regard can be obtained from the Ministry of Sports. 
 
 
 

This  circular  is  issued  on  the  request  of  the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  Sports  and 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sgd/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Services, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

 
Copies :- 
01.  Secretary to the President, President’s Secretariat -   For Information 
02.  Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Sports  

   -   For information and Necessary Action 

 
 

 
 

 

