Public Administration Circular : 11/2018 

My No: MPA/IAD/ADM/GA02/DR/18 
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Management and Law & Order 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
22.06.2018 
 

Secretaries of Ministries 
Provincial Chief Secretaries 
Heads of Departments 
Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards 
 

Declaration of “National Drug Prevention Week” 

(from 26.06.2018 to 02.07.2018) 

 
Reference the Circular issued by the Secretary to the President No PS/DSP/DPU/07/18 dated 
12.06.2018 on the above matter. 
 
02. 
National Drug Prevention programmes, held island wide with the objective of making 
Sri  Lanka  a  nation  free  of  intoxicants,  encourages  the  economic,  social  and  cultural 
development  and  directly  contribute  to  achieving  the  task  of  freeing  Sri  Lanka  from  the 
narcotic menace. 
 
03. 
Island  wide  programmes  are  to  be  organized  during  the  drug  prevention  week  with 
the above objectives and with the aim of freeing Sri Lanka from narcotic menace under the 
national  programme  of  “A  Nation  Free  from  Intoxicants”.  Accordingly,  National 
Dangerous Drugs Control Board, the Presidential Task Force on Drug Prevention and other 
affiliated institutions have declared “National Drug Prevention Week” from 26.06.2018 to 
02.07.2018  concurrent  to  the  International  Day  Against  Drug  Abuse  and  Illicit 
Trafficking. 
 
04. 
Accordingly,  all  public  institutions  should  focus  on  conducting  drug  prevention 
programmes  mentioned  below  during  National  Drug  Prevention  Week  and  you  are  kindly 
informed to continue conducting these programmes and activities in your institution as well 
as in all other affiliated institutions. 
 

I.  Drug  Prevention  Committees  should  be  established  and  keep  them  active  in  every 
public institution to act against the use of drugs and action should be taken to make 
aware the public officers on the damage caused by the use of drugs to the dignity of 
the profession, efficiency and productivity. 
 

II.  Boards containing advices made through pictures against smoking and alcohol should 
be displayed in every public institution and it is strictly prohibited to display boards, 
paintings  or  drawings  containing  pictures  which  promote  use  of  drugs  even  at  a 
minimum level. Actions should be taken to prevent such situations. 
 

 

III.  The  message  of  drug  prevention  should  be  transmitted  to  the  children  and  to  the 
public  through  productive  and  practical  activities  showcasing  the  adverse  results  of 
the use of drug. 
 

IV.  Boards, posters and banners should be displayed to make aware the public that your 

institution is free from the use of drugs. 
 
Further,  special  attention  should  be  paid  to  implement  the  provisions  mentioned  in 
Section 2, Chapter XLVIII, Volume II of the Establishments Code. 

V. 

 
05. 
Accordingly,  you  are  kindly  informed  to  send  the  particulars  of  the  programmes 
conducted  during  the  National  Drug  Prevention  Week  to  the  President’s  Secretariat  with  a 
copy to me. 
 
I  would  like  to  notify  you  that  it  is  your  responsibility  to  implement  the  above 
06. 
mentioned  programmes  in  your  Ministry/  Department/  Institution  to  make  the  national 
programme  of  “A  Nation  Free  of  Intoxicants”,  which  is  functioning  under  the  direct 
supervision of H.E. the President, a success.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Copies: 

Sgd/ Padmasiri Jayamanne 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Management and 

Law & Order 

 
 

01. Secretary to the President (President’s Office) -  For your information as per your letter 

no PS/DSP/DPU/01/02/02 dated 
18.06.2018 

