Public Administration Circular: 02/2021(I)    

         My No: EST-6/03/LEA/3381 
         Ministry of Public Services,  

                     Provincial Councils and Local Government                    

Independence Square 

                     Colombo 07. 

 

27.04.2021 

Secretaries to Ministries 
Secretaries to State Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments 
District Secretaries/ Government Agents 
Divisional Secretaries 
Chairmen of State Corporations, Statutory Boards  
  

Ensuring public service without interruption  

 
Having taken into consideration the set of instructions issued by Health Sectors to prevent the 
spread of COVID 19 pandemic, the provisions of the Public Administration Circular 02/2021 
dated 05.03.2021 are hereby temporarily suspended until further notice.  
 
02. 
Officers serving in all public institutions may be allowed to abstain from reporting for 
duties for 02 working days per week up to maximum of 08 days per calendar month without 
deducting such days from their leave from 27.04.2021.    
 
03. 
Therefore  the  Heads  of  Institutions  can  make  an  arrangement,  which  is  more 
appropriate to the particular institution, for allowing each officer to abstain from reporting for 
duties within a calendar month  without obtaining leave entitled to such officer, so as not  to 
exceed the maximum of 08 days.   
 
04. 
If  it  is  required  to  call  officers  for  duty  for  more  than  03  days  per  week  in  order  to 
maintain  the  service  delivery,  which  is  essential  to  ensure  daily  life  of  the  people,  without 
interruption, the respective Head of Institution can take a decision for calling officers for duty 
accordingly. 
 
05.  When  such  duty  roaster  is  prepared,  action  should  be  taken  to  deduct  the  date,  on 
which  the  officer  does  not  report  for  duty,  from  his/  her  personal  leave,  only  if  the  date  of 
absence falls within the duty roaster.  
 
06. 
duties online even on the days, on which the officer is not called for duty under duty roaster. 
 
07. 
are not included in the duty roaster depending on medical grounds or other reasons.  
 
08. 
Since  the  objective  of  introducing  a  system  of  duty  roaster  is  to  keep  the  social 
distance  within  service  stations  and  minimizing  the  spread  of  the  virus,  the  first  priority 
should always be given to the aforesaid objective and then convenience and the agreement of 
officers should be taken into consideration.   .  

Action should be taken under general procedure regarding leave of the officers, who 

However  every  officer  should  be  prepared  to  perform  the  tasks  relevant  to  his/her 

 

In case where a certain public officer has been directed for quarantine process due to 
09. 
the  prevailing  situation  and  further  such  direction  has  been  made  not  as  a  punishment  for 
violation of the rules of the quarantine imposed by the Government, the period of quarantine 
should  be considered as  a period of leave with  full pay  as per the provisions  of sub section 
12:9, chapter XII of the Establishments Code.  
 
10. 
The Heads of Institutions should pay attention personally for engaging the officers in 
their institutions in duty adhering to the health instructions, which have already been issued 
and  purported  to  be  issued  in  due  course  by  the  Government  for  preventing  the  spread  of 
COVID 19.  
 
 

    Sgd/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

Secretary 

          Ministry of Public Services,  

        Provincial Councils and Local Government  

 

 

2 

