Public Administration Circular Letter : 07/2017 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
                

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments 
 

 

 

 

My No: EST-1/CIRL/03/0001 
Ministry of Public Administration  
and Management 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 

             
             

                 

11.12.2017 

Entrusting of Official Responsibilities and Handing Over of Documents in 

Proper Manner  

 

Reference the observations made in the First Report of the Public Accounts Committee published 
in Parliamentary Publications 99 of the First Session of the 8th Parliament on the above matter. 
 
02. 
It  has  been  pointed  out  by  the  above  observation  that  the  official  documents  and  duties 
are not handed over properly to the new officers in transferring process of public officers and it 
has resulted in problematic situations such as the inability to answer for audit quarries, the lack of 
knowledge on the functions of the institutions and the difficulties in rectification of malpractices 
in the institutions.  
 
03. 
Further, I have been reported that the inventories and the balances of physical stocks are 
not  handed  over  properly  to  new  officers  at  the  instances  where  an  officer  in  charge  of  the 
inventory is transferred and there are discrepancies among the inventories and physical stocks. 
 
04.  Therefore,  it  is  informed  to  prepare  a  proper  methodology  which  is  applicable  for  the 
relevant  institution  to  hand  over  the  files    following  the  guidelines  mentioned  below  for  the 
purpose of handing over and taking over of official files as well as inventory items whenever an 
officer is transferred. 
 

I.  Whenever  a  transferred  officer  assumes  duties  after  assignment  of  his/  her  duties, 
such officer should see to receive following files/ reports from the relevant officer in 
charge  of  the  subject/  head  of  the  branch/  administrative  officer  in  accurate  and 
formal way. 

 

  Registers  on  subject  files  (which  are  still  functioning  and  old  files)  along  with 

functioning files 

  Registers  on  the  letters  which  are  received  (which  are  still  functioning  and  old 

files)  

  Register  on  the  letters  to  be  attended,  the  letters  of  which  the  matters  have  not 

been concluded and the letters which are in process 

  Register on files which have been sent to the record room 
  Register on the files which were in process at the time of transfer 
  Register on reports which are to be received and sent 
  Register on index cards  
  Subject  related  reference  files  (circular  file,  file  on  precedence,  files  on  reports, 

files on instructions) 

  Call up diary 
  Register on updated index (wherever necessary) 
  Register on the items which are under the custody of the officer    

 

II.  The  officer  in  charge  of  the  subject  should  prepare  the  list  of  files  and  items  to  be 
handed over by him/her in triplicate and then one of the copies should be handed over 
to the Staff Officer in charge of the division/ unit after signing the same to the effect 
that they are handed over correctly and received by both officers, who hand over and 
receive them. 

 
III.  The  officer  who  assumes  duties/  subject  should  further  maintain  the  register  on 
subject files and whenever a new file is opened he/ she should continue the series of 
reference numbers of his predecessor in accordance with the register on files.      

 
IV.  Whenever  an  officer  in  charge  of  the  inventory  is  transferred,  he/  she  should 
physically  verify  the  stocks  in  accordance  with  the  updated  inventory  under  the 
officer’s custody and then it should be handed over in writing to an officer nominated 
on the approval of the relevant Staff Officer.  

 
 

In case where any deficit is observed in the verification, the respective Heads of the 
Institutions should take action in terms of the relevant Financial Regulations and also 
to  release  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  inventory  only  on  completion  of  relevant 
handing over and receiving of items in the proper manner.  

 
V.  Whenever, the officer is transferred, such officer should hand over the inventory items 
issued to  such officer and obtained a  written confirmation  to  the effect  that they are 
handed over properly to the stores. Further, action should be taken to receive properly 
the official stamps/ official identity cards issued to the transferred officer.  
 

05.  This circular is issued with the concurrence of the General Treasury.  
 

 

             Sdg:/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

          Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration and Management  

