 

Public Administration Circular : 04/2021 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My No: EST-4/04/MNT/4604 
Ministry of Public Services,  
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 

    

19.03.2021 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Secretaries to Ministries 
Secretaries to State Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments  
 

Establishment of a Pool of Translators 

 
A  decision  has  been  taken  at  the  meeting  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  held  on  14.01.2019 
considering  the  grave  dearth  of  proficient  translators  to  recruit  graduates,  who  have  studied 
translation  methods/  linguistics  studies  to  the  appropriate  posts  of  translators’  service  on 
contract  basis  until  recruitments  are  made  to  the  service  after  getting  approval  for  the  new 
Service Minute.  
 
02.   Action should be taken to get the duties performed applying this method only at the 
occasions  where  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  the  service  of    permanent  Translators  already  in 
service and where the posts of translators have fallen vacant. Further it is hereby emphasized 
that  the  priority  should  be  given  to  recruit  Translators  (Sinhala/Tamil),  which  is  the  dire 
necessity at the moment.  
 
03.  
It  is  hereby  notified  that  the  Heads  of  Institutions  should  take  action  to  obtain 
approval  from  the  Department  of  Management  Services  for  new  posts  of  Translators  in 
Translators’ Service to employ them on contract basis depending on the requirement in case 
where there are no vacancies in the approved posts in the institution. 
 
04.  
Translators in the Translators’ Pool, are as follows.   
 

The  charges,  which  are  applicable  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  the  service  of  the 

I. 

To  pay  Rs.  1000/-  (Thousand  Rupees)  for  a  service  of  08  hours  in  case  where  the 
service is obtained on daily basis.  

 

II.  To pay Rs. 30,000/- (Thirty Thousand Rupees) monthly in case where the service is 

obtained on contract basis.  

 

III.  To pay for typing/ computer typing the text of translation in terms of the provisions 

in para 04 of Public Administration Circular 12/2003(III) dated 22.08.2016.  

 
05.  
The  Heads  of  Institutions,  who  obtain  the  service  of  Translators  under  this  method, 
should report quarterly to the Secretary in charge of the subject of Public Services regarding 
the quality of the service provided by such translators.  
 
06. 
 

This Circular is issued with the concurrence of the General Treasury.  

   Sgd/ J.J.Rathnasiri 

   Secretary 

     Ministry of Public Service, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government 

