Public Administration Circular Letter : 06/2015 

My No. : EST-1/MISCL/06/0032 

Ministry Public Administration  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Management 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07. 

 24.11.2015 

Secretaries to Ministries 

Chief Secretaries of Provinces 

Heads of Departments 

Forwarding Representations of Public Officers to the Higher Authority 

 

Your attention is drawn to the Section 5 and 6, of the Chapter XXVIII of the Establishments Code. 

  

02. 

It has been observed that there is a trend of making appeals by public officers directly to 

the  Higher  Authority  deviating  from  the  provisions  of  the  Establishments  Code,  without  the 

knowledge of the respective Head of the Department or other relevant Authority that it is a very 

dissatisfying situation.   

 

Eg: An Assistant Divisional Secretary making appeals directly to me without the knowledge of the 

Divisional Secretary or the District Secretary or the Secretary to the Ministry of Home Affairs. 

 

03.  

In  case  where  a  certain  officer  makes  his/  her  representation  to  an  Authority  without 

following the Section 5 and 6, of the Chapter XXVIII of the Establishments Code, the grounds for 

such submission shall be examined and  disciplinary  actions shall be taken against the respective 

officer if any reasonable ground for such act is not revealed.  

 

04.  

Further, you are requested to issue instructions to the Supervisory Officers at every level to 

follow  the  Section  5.1  paying  attention  to  the  section  5  of  the  Chapter  XXVIII  of  the 

Establishments  Code  subjected  to  the  other  sections  therein.  Also  disciplinary  actions  shall  be 

taken  against  a  Supervisory  Officer  who  does  not  forward  a  request  or  an  appeal  properly 

forwarded by a certain officer, to the relevant Authority as mentioned in 03 above.   

 

 

 

 

         Secretary 

  Sgd/J. Dadallage  

Ministry of Public Administration and Management 

 

 

 

 

 

