Combined Services Circular : 01/2019 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
Secretaries of Ministries 
District Secretaries/ Government Agents 
Heads of Departments  
 

 

 

 

 

My No : PA/CS/POLICY/ E.B Exam IV 
Combined Services Division 
Ministry of Public Administration & 
Disaster Management  
Colombo 07. 

10.04.2019 

Granting period of concession to the officers absorbed into Class II/ Grade II of Public 
Management Assistant Service from the Clerical service of Employees Provident Fund 

 

Your attention is hereby drawn to Combined Services Circular No 01/2017, dated 16.02.2017 by which 
concessions were  made  to  the  officers  in  Public Management  Assistants’  Service  who were  unable to 
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations, as a result of not holding examinations on due time, to pass the 
Efficiency  Bar  examinations.  Public  Service  Commission  has  ordered  to  provide  concessions  to  the 
officers absorbed into Class II/ Grade II of Public Management Assistant Service from the Clerical service 
of Employees Provident Fund, to pass the Efficiency Bar examination subject to the following conditions 
and making the above as a precedent.  

i. 

ii. 

To  grant  six  consecutive  sittings  from  the  date  of  promotion  to  the  officers  who  have  been 
absorbed  to  Class  II/  Grade  II  of  Public  Management  Assistants’  Service  from  previous  clerical 
service  of  Employees’  Provident  Fund  and  who  have  been  promoted  to  Class  II/  Grade  II  of  the 
service after absorption into Public Management Assistants’ Service. 
 To  grant  six  consecutive  sittings  to  the  officers,  who  have  not  completed  Efficiency  Bar 
examinations after their promotion to segment 2-A of Clerical service of Employees Provident Fund 
before 01.01.2004 to complete the Efficiency Bar examination after 01.01.2004. 

iii.  Since the concessions should be provided proportionate to concessions granted to the officers of 
the whole service in granting of concessions for Efficiency Bar examination as mentioned above, to 
continue  the  deferment  of  salaries  made  before  01.01.2004  in  respect  of  the  officers  who  were 
appointed  to  Clerical  Service  of  Employees’  Provident  Fund  before  01.01.2004  and  promoted  to 
Class II A of the Service and reached the salary step prescribed for Efficiency Bar before 01.01.2004.  
 

2. 

Accordingly,  

i. 

the officers whose salary increments were deferred due to their inability to pass the Efficiency 
Bar examinations applicable to Grade II on due date,  

ii.  the officers whose promotions to Grade I on average performance were delayed after the due 
period  owing  to  the  above,  the  officers  who  have  not  made  appeals  so  far  for  concessions, 
Efficiency  Bar  examinations  or  promotions  in  order  to  update  only  the  salary  increments 

deferred  under  this  and  the  promotions  of  Grade  I  on  average  performance  due  to  above 
(mentioned in Section 12.3 of Public Management Assistants Service  Minute published on  the 
Gazette  Extraordinary  1472/23  dated  24.12.2004  and  Section  10:2  of  the  said  Service  Minute 
published  on  the  Gazette 1840/34  dated 02.04.2013)  due  to  the  delay  in  passing/  completing 
Efficiency  Bar  Examinations  relevant  to  Grade  II,  should  submit  a  request  along  with  the 
recommendation of the respective Head of Department.  
 
3. 
Since  this  is  a  concession  granted  with  the  retrospective  effect  and  since  no  remedy  can  be 
made  at  present  for  the  opportunities  denied  in  the  past  and  further  action  should  be  taken  without 
making any prejudice to the measures taken in the past on such matters, it is hereby emphasized that 
there is no possibility to consider the appeals made regarding the lost opportunities. 

i.  The  appeals  made  regarding  the  denials  due  to  deferment  of  salaries  before  granting  of  this 
concessions, the  denial  of opportunity for appearing for competitive  examinations/ interviews 
or any other opportunity for selection for a promotion or joining another services (mentioned 
under  Section  12:2  of  the  Public  Management  Assistants’  Service  Minute  published  in  the 
Gazette Extraordinary No 1372/23 dated 24.04.2012 and No 1840/34 dated 24.12.2004)  

ii.  Appeals made for concessions for the opportunities to receive appointments which were denied 

due to the deferment of salary before granting this concession. 

iii.  The  appeals  made  by  the  officers  to  obtain  appointments/  privileges,  which  have  been 
suspended  due  to  applying  for  promotions  or  any  other  Competitive  Examinations  without 
identifying/  considering  the  deferment  of  salary  increments  occurred  before  granting  this 
concession  and  pass  the  above  and  the  privilege  or  the  appointment  suspended  which  were 
made  on  the  results  of  the  examination  or  the  promotion  as  a  result  of  identifying  or 
considering the deferment of salary increments at the interview or later occasion. 
 
4. 
Even  though  six  consecutive  sittings  are  granted  to  the  officers  who  were  appointed  to  the 
Clerical Service of EPF before 01.01.2004 and promoted to segment 2 A, but who have not passed the 
relevant  Efficiency  bar  Examination  up  to  01.01.2004,  to  complete  the  Efficiency  Bar  examination 
prescribed  under  this  circular,  any  salary  deferment,  which  has  been  made  due  to  non-completion of 
Efficiency Bar examination before  01.01.2004 as mentioned under 01 (iii) above,  should be  continued 
without change and such officers will not be entitled to a concession by this measure. 

 

 

Sgd/ K.V.P.M.J. Gamage 
Director General of Combined Services 

 

