 

 

 
Public Administration Circular letters: 03/2013 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

My Number: EST-7/LEAVE/03/3183 
Ministry of Public Administration and  
Home Affairs 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provincial Councils 
Heads of Departments 
 
Granting  of  Maternity  leave  in  Terms  of  Public  Administration  Circular  No.  04/2005  to 
new  appointees  to  Public  Service  who  receive  their  permanent  appointments  after  child 
birth 
 
A  large  number of  inquires  are received  in  respect  of procedure  that  should be  followed in 

27.08.2013 

granting  maternity  leave  in  terms  of  Public  Administration  Circular  No.  04/2005  to  female 

public  officers  who  have  delivered  a baby  prior  to receiving  their  permanent  appointments. 

At such occasions action should be taken in the following manner. 

 

02. 

 As  per  the  provision  of  the  above  circular,  female  public  officers  are  granted 

maternity  leave  to  ensure  nutrition  and  protection  to  the  child.  Accordingly  the  remaining 

number of days  after  deducting  the  number of days  between  the  date of  the  child  birth and   

the date of assumption of duties of the newly appointee, from the maternity leave of 84 days 

can  be  granted  as  full  pay  leave  as  per  provisions  of  Public  Administration  Circular  No. 

04/2005. 

 

03. 

  In  case  where  the  officer  is  entitled  to  obtain  either  leave  with  half  pay  or  no-pay 

after the above calculation, the officer shall also be granted such leave on her request.  

 

04. 

 Further, it is informed that the leave granted to the officers deviating from the above 

instructions, who have received appointments in public service after child birth and who are 

still  within  the  period    entitled  to  obtain  leave  with  full  pay,  half  pay  and  no-  pay  as  per 

Public Administration Circular No. 04/2005, shall be revised making necessary adjustments.  

 
 
 

 

    Sgd: P.B. Abeykoon 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
 

 

 

 

