Combined Service Circular No : 02/2018 
                                            
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

My No: PA/CS/POLICY/E.B Exam IV 
Combined Services Division 
Ministry  of  Public  Administration, 
Management and Law & Order 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07 
 
04.06.2018 

Secretaries of Ministries, 
District Secretaries/ Government Agents 
Heads of Departments 
 
Granting  Period  of  Concession  for  Officers  absorbed  into  Class  III  of  Public  Management 
Assistants  Service  from  Health  Management  Assistants’  Service  to  pass  the  Efficiency  Bar 
Examinations 
 
It  has  been  decided  by  the  Public  Service  Commission  to  grant  a  concessionary  period  to the 
officers, who were absorbed to Class III of Public Management Assistants Service from Health 
Management  Assistant  Service,  to  pass  the  efficiency  bar  examinations  prescribed  for  the 
Health  Management  Assistants’  Service  and  Class  II  of  Public Management  Assistants’  Service 
after the absorption, in 06 consecutive sittings subject to the following conditions. 
 
02. 
i. The officers whose probation period was extended/ salary increments were deferred due to 
the delay in passing/ completing the Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Primary Grade/Class 
III of the Health Management Assistants’ Service and 
ii  Who  are  unable  to  pass  the  Efficiency  Bar  examinations  on  due  dates  as  a  result  of  not 
conducting the examinations on due time 
 
in order to getting the promotions of Grade II on average performance, which was delayed due 
to  the  salary  increments  deferred  /  probation  period  extended  affecting  their  seniority, 
updated  (mentioned  in  Section  11:3  of  the  Public  Management  Assistants  Service  Minute 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004 and Section 10:1 of the 
Service  Minute  published  in  the  Gazette  extraordinary  No  1840/34  dated  11.12.2013  which 
came into effect from 02.04.2013), should submit request along with the recommendation of 
the respective Head of Department. 

Accordingly,  

Since this is a concession granted with retrospective effect and further a remedy cannot 
03. 
be made at present regarding the lost opportunities in the past and further, the action should 
be taken so as not to cause any prejudice to the measures taken previously on such matters, it 
is hereby emphasized that it is not possible to consider the appeals submitted in relation to the 
lost opportunities given below.  

 

i. The appeals made for concessions on deprival of opportunity for entering into other services 
to which the entry was denied due to the deferment of salary increments before granting this 
concession or appearing for competitive examinations/ interviews or any other opportunity for 
such  selection  for  promotions  (mentioned  under  Section  12:2  of  the  Service  Minute  of  the 
Management Assistants dated 24.12.2004 published in the Gazette extraordinary no 23/1372) 

ii. Appeals made for concessions regarding the opportunities to obtain appointments deprived 
due to the deferment of salary increments occurred before this concession. 

iii. 

The  appeal  made  by  the  officers  who  have  applied  fraudulently  for  examinations  for 
promotions  or  any  other  competitive  examinations  without  identifying/  considering  the 
deferment  of  salary  increments  occurred  before  this  concession  and  passed  them  and  then 
whose promotion or the appointment or privilege granted on the result of the examination 
has been suspended due to identifying or considering the deferment of salary increments at 
the interview or any later occasion, to receive again the appointments/ privilege, which have 
earlier been suspended.  

 
04. 
Even  though  the  officers,  who  were  appointed  to  the  Health  Clerical  Service  before 
01.05.2003 and promoted to II A category of the said service but had not passed the Efficiency 
Bar  Examination  relevant  to  II  A  category  as  at  01.05.2003,  are  also  entitled  to  the  06 
consecutive sittings to complete the relevant Efficiency Bar examination after 01.05.2003 under 
this Circular, if any deferment of salary has been made due to not completing the examination 
before 01.05.2003, it will remain unchanged and no relief shall be granted from this Circular. 
 
05. 
For  the  purpose  of  considering  six  consecutive  sittings  mentioned  above,  the  total 
consecutive sittings prescribed for Grade III, received in both services including such sittings in 
previous Health Management Assistants Service held from the date of appointment to Primary 
Grade/ Grade III, and the sittings in Public Management Assistants Service should be six. In this 
way  no  opportunity  will  be  granted  to  an  officer  to  go  beyond  the  prescribed  number  of 
sittings.  
 
 

Sgd / K.V.P.M.J. Gamage 
Director General of Combined Services 

 

Copies:  
Chief Secretaries of all Provincial Councils – For information and Necessary Action 

