Combined Service Circular No: 05/2017 

 

 

 
My No: PA/CS/POLICY/EB Exam IV 
Combined Services Division 
Ministry  of  Public  Administration  and 
Management  
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 

 

16.11.2017 
 

Secretaries of Ministries 
District Secretaries/ Government Agents 
Heads of Departments 
 
Granting  Period  of  Concession  for  Officers  absorbed  into  Class  II  of  Public  Management 
Assistants’ Service from Health Management Assistants’ Service to pass the Efficiency Bar 
Examinations 

Your  attention 
is  hereby  drawn  to  Combined  Service  Circular  No.  01/2017  Dated 
16.02.2017, by which concessions were granted topass the efficiency bar examinationto the 
officers of the Public Management Assistants’ Service who are unable to pass the Efficiency 
Bar examinations on due dates as a result of not conducting the examinations on due time. 
Public  Service  Commission  having  taken  the  above  as  a  precedent  has  ordered  to  grant 
concessions to the officers, who were absorbed to Class II of Public Management Assistants 
Service from Health Management Assistant Service, to pass the efficiency bar examinations 
subject to the following conditions. 

i 

To grant a period of concession from 11.09.2006 to 14.10.2009 to pass the subject of 
Administration  of  Health  Institutions  and  Hospitals,  a  subject  of  the  Efficiency  Bar 
Examination  applicable  to  Class  II  of  the  Health  Management  Assistants’Service 
existed previously.  

ii  To grant a period of concession for sitting in consequent six examinations held from 
the date of issuance of the letter of promotion to Class II, after the establishment of 
the  Health  Management  Assistants’  Service  on  01.05.2003  in  order  to  pass  the 
Efficiency  Bar  Examination  which  was  earlier  applicable  to  class  II  of  Health 
Management Assistants Service as per the previous Minute of Health Management 
Assistants  Service  and  then  applicable  to  Class  II  of  Public  Management  Assistants’ 
Service. 

02. Accordingly, 

I.  The officers whose salary increment have been deferred due to their inability to pass 

the Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to Grade II on due date  

 

II.  The officers whose promotions to Grade I on average performance were delayed due 
to  above  reasons  as  a  result  of  delaying  to  complete/pass  the  efficiency  bar 
examination to Class II  
and  the  officers,  who  have  not  so  far  submitted  appeals  for  efficiency  bar 
examinations  or  promotions  or  concessions  is  strictlyin  order  to  getting  the 
promotions  of  Grade  I  on  average  performance  (mentioned  in  Section  12:3  of  the 
Public  Management  Assistants  Service  Minute  published 
the  Gazette 
Extraordinary No 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004 and Section 10:2 of the Service Minute 

in 

dated 02.04.2013)  and the salary increments deferred under this situation updated, 
should  submit  request  along  with  the  recommendation  of  the  respective  Head  of 
Department. 

 

03. 
Since  this  is  a  concession  granted  with  retrospective  effect  and  further  a  remedy 
cannot  be  made  at  present  regarding  the  lost  opportunities  in  the  past  and  further,  the 
action should be taken so as not to cause any prejudice to the measures taken previously on 
such  matters,  it  is  hereby  emphasized  that  it  is  not  possible  to  consider  the  appeals 
submitted in relation to the lost opportunities given below.  

i.  The appeals made for concessions on deprival of opportunity for entering into other 
services  to  which  the  entry  was  denied  due  to  the  deferment  of  salary  increments 
before  granting  this  concession  or  appearing  for  competitive  examinations/ 
interviews  or  any  other  opportunity  for  such  selection  for  promotions  (mentioned 
under  Section  12:2  of  the  Service  Minute  of  the  Management  Assistants  dated 
24.12.2004 published in the Gazette extraordinary no 23/1372) 

ii.  Appeals  made  for  concessions  regarding  the  opportunities  to  obtain  appointments 
deprived due to the deferment of salary increments occurred before this concession.  
iii.  The appeal made by the officers who have applied fraudulently for examinations for 
promotions or any other competitive examinations without identifying/ considering 
the  deferment  of  salary  increments  occurred  before  this  concession  and  passed 
them  and  then  whose  promotion  or  the  appointment  or  privilege  granted  on  the 
result of the examination has been suspended due to identifying or considering the 
deferment  of  salary  increments  at  the  interview  or  any  later  occasion,  to  receive 
again the appointments/ privilege, which have earlier been suspended.  

 

04. 
Even though the officers, who were appointed to the Health Clerical Service before 
01.05.2003  and  promoted  to  II  A  category  of  the  said  service  but  had  not  passed  the 
Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to II A category as at 01.05.2003, are also entitled to the 
06 consecutive sittings to complete the relevant Efficiency Bar examination after 01.05.2003 
under  this  Circular,  if  any  deferment  of  salary  has  been  made  due  to  not  completing  the 
examination before 01.05.2003, it will remain unchanged and no relief shall be granted from 
this Circular.  
 
For  the  purpose  of  considering  six  consecutive  sittings  mentioned  in  section  01,  ii 
05. 
above, the consecutive sittings received in both services including such sittings in previous 
Health  Management  Assistants  Service  held  from  the  date  of  the  letter  of  promotion  to 
Class II and the Efficiency Bar Examinations applicable to Class II of PMAS after 10.09.2006 
should be taken into consideration and accordingly, the total number of consecutive sittings 
should  be  six.  In  this  way  no  opportunity  will  be  granted  to  an  officer  to  go  beyond  the 
prescribed number of sittings. 
 

Sgd./ K.V.P.M.J. Gamage 
Director General of Combined Services 
 
Copy:- 
Chief Secretaries of all Provincial Councils – For information and Necessary Action  

