Public Administration Circular Letter: 03/2015 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My No: EST 5/1/46 

Ministry of Public Administration,  

Local Government and Democratic  

Governance 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07. 

 

20.07.2015 

Secretaries to Ministries 

Chief Secretaries of Provinces  

Heads of Departments  

 

 

Guidelines to be followed when the issues related to Salaries are submitted to 

the Director General of Establishments 

The  expectation  of  a  person  who  holds  a  post  is  to  receive  the  due  salary  prescribed  for the  said 

post  with  earned  salary  increments  and  other  increment  considering  the  tasks  performed  and  the 

responsibilities borne in the respective posts and it is the responsibility of the respective authorities 

to fulfill this expectation.  

 

02. 

However,  when  considering  the  matters  referred  to  this  Ministry  with  the  hope of  solving 

problems occurred as a result of  not fulfilling the above  expectation  and responsibilities, I would 

like to highlight the fact that your further attention is required in this regard.  

 

03. 

If it is considered the age of 18 as the minimum age for joining the public service the oldest 

member in the public service at present, as at the date of the issuance of this circular, has joined the 

service  in  the  year  1972.  The  Public  Administration  Circulars  which  are  applicable  for  the  said 

officer and the public service in general on their salaries are as follows. 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

Public Administration Circular 96 

Public Administration Circular 197 and its revisions 

Public Administration Circular 327 and its revisions 

Public Administration Circular 387 and its revisions 

Public Administration Circular 37/92 and its revisions 

vi. 

vii. 

Public Administration Circular 2/97 and its revisions 

Public Administration Circular 15/2003 and 15/2003 (I) 

viii. 

Public Administration Circular 9/2004 and its revisions 

ix. 

x. 

 

Public Administration Circular 6/2006 and its revisions 

Public Administration Circular 28/2010 and 28/2010 (I) 

04. 

In  addition  to  the  above  mentioned  circulars  regarding  Salaries  which  affected  be  entire 

Public  Service,  Circulars  also  have  been  issued  to  remove  the  Salary  anomalies  exist  in  certain 

Posts/ Services in a manner affecting only to that particular post/ service.  

 

Examples-: 

i. 

Public  Administration  Circular  07/2008  dated  05.02.2008,  Public  Administration  Circular 

07/2008 (I) dated 26.05.2011, Public Administration Circular 07/2008 (II) dated 31.10.2011 

issued for Sri Lanka Technological Service 

 

ii. 

Public  Administration  Circular  17/2008  dated  22.08.2008  issued  for  Class  I  and  Supra 

Class of Public Management Assistants’ Service 

 

iii. 

Public  Administration  Circular  30/2013  dated  18.12.2013  issued  to  remove  the  salary 

anomalies  of  the  officers  who  were  absorbed  to  Class  I  and  Supra  Class  in  the  Public 

Management assistants Service from Health Management Assistants’ Service 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

05. 

The salary structure of the posts in the public service has been prepared on the basis of the 

orders issued by the Salary Commissions established at various occasions and the Director General 

of  Establishments.  Further,  the  decisions  granted  to  the  officers  so  as  to  be  personal  to  them  in 

order  to  remove  the  salary  anomalies  occurred  to  them  have  been  applied  when  solving  the 

establishment issues of said persons.  

 

06.  When analyzing the issues relevant to salaries submitted to the Director General, it has been 

observed that the highest numbers of issues are related to departmental posts.  

 

07. 

It  has  been  frequently  observed  that,  when  the  salary  issues  related  to  departmental  posts 

are submitted to the Director General of Establishments, all the matters required to solve the issue 

are not submitted and the issue is not specifically mentioned. Further, the entire salary conversion 

is submitted to check the accuracy.  It takes unnecessarily a long period of time to solve the issue 

when all the information required is not submitted and the issue is not specifically mentioned. This 

is entirely an administrative problem  beyond the  control of the person who suffers with the  issue 

related to the salary.  

 

08. 

To  avoid  weaknesses  caused  by  not  submitting  all  the  information  relevant  to  the  salary 

issue and not submitting the issue specifically, all the issues related to salaries which are submitted 

after 30.07.2015 should be submitted to the Director General of Establishments in accordance with 

the format attached herewith.  Accordingly, all the salary conversions up to the date on which the 

solution for the issue or the advice is expected, should be certified by a Senior Assistant Secretary 

or any other officer holding a similar post. The issues related to salaries should be submitted to the 

Director General of Establishments when the relevant Head of the Department and the Secretary of 

the Ministry are satisfied with the accuracy of the certification.  

 

09. 

Even  though  the  methodology  to  be  followed  in  salary  revision  and  salary  conversion  is 

clearly  mentioned  in  Chapter  VII  of  the  Establishments  Code  and  provisions  of  the  relevant 

Circulars, salary preparations have been done without a proper study and it has caused number of 

issues  related  to  salaries.  Therefore,  you  must  personally  supervise  whether  the  certification  of 

accuracy mentioned in para 08 above, is properly followed in your Ministry/ Department.  

 

10. 

Further  it  is  a  waste  of  time  and  resources  to  advice  on  the  salary  issues  arisen  from  the 

inadvertences  of  the  establishment  activities.  Further,  action  will  not  be  taken  with  regard  to  the 

salary issues submitted without following the guidelines mentioned in this Circular letter and action 

will be taken to return the requests to you.  

 

11. 

You  are  further  informed  to  take  necessary  action  to  inform  all  the  Heads  of  Institutions 

under  you  on  these  provisions  and  to  update  and  maintain  the  table  on  details  of  salary  circulars 

mentioned in this Circular letter.  

 

 

 

Sgd. / J. Dadallage  

                     Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Local Government and  

Democratic Governance  

 

Format which should be used when submitting issues on salary, to the Director 

General of Establishments 

 

i. 

 
ii. 

Name of the officer to whom the issue is related:  …….....................………………………. 

Post, Grade and service to which it belongs 

: ………...……..........………………………. 

         (Ex: Public Management Assistant II/ Driver III) 

 
iii.  Nature of appointment/ promotion 

 

:Open/Limited/Merit/Absorption 

 
iv.  Date of appointment/ promotion:  First appointment:………………………....…………….. 

Grade promotions:……………….……………................. 

Promotion or appointment to other post : ……………….. 

 

v. 

Salary code number entitled to the post  

as per each date of appointment  

 
vi.  Date of salary increment at present 

 

 

:…………………………………..………… 

:…………………………………………….. 

 
vii.  Particulars on passing/ exemption from  Efficiency 

bar examinations, and differing salary increments 

 :……………………….…………… 

 

viii. 

Year, in which 

Issue, and the Salary 

Monthly salary step, 

Other special 

the issue arose 

circular applicable to the 

salary scale and salary 

matters 

issue to which solutions are 

code number  paid at the 

expected 

time of which the issue 

arose 

 

 

 

 

 

ix. 

It  is  hereby  certified  that  all  salary  conversions  paid  from  the  date  of  first  appointment  up     

to occasion where an issue arose in respect of the issue of this officer have been examined, 

and the salary paid up to ……………………….. is correct. 

 

 

x.    

 

Prepared by, 

 

 

 

  

 

Checked by, 

 

           ……………..……………… 

                                     …………………………….. 

           (Name, Designation, signature) 

 

            (Name, Designation, signature) 

 

xi.  

I hereby certify that aforesaid particulars are true and correct. 

         (Senior Assistant Secretary or a responsible officer in the similar level) 

 

 

Signature:…………………………… 

Name and official stamp 

