Public Administration Circular letters: 02/2013 

My No:- EST-2/POLCY/03/0798 
Ministry of Public Administration and 
Home Affairs, 
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07  
 
21.06.2013 

Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provincial Councils 
Head of Departments 
 

Policy    
Official Languagessss    Policy
Implementation of    tttthehehehe    Official Language
Implementation of
Official Language
Implementation of
Implementation of
Official Language
Policy
Policy

    

The Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers has informed me that the proposals relating to the 

acquisition of proficiency in the Official Languages, submitted by the Committee chaired by 

him,  have  been  approved  by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  on  20.06.2013  and  that  accordingly, 

Cabinet approval has been granted to amend the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 

relating to the Implementation of the Official Languages Policy, and its Amendments. 

 

02. 

One  of  the  proposals  mentioned  therein  is,  that  a  pass  in  the  subject  of  “Second 

Language” Sinhala/Tamil at the G.C.E. O/L examination would be accepted instead of a pass 

in the Sinhala  Language  & Literature/Tamil  Language & Literature as a main subject (core 

subject)  at  the  G.C.E.  O/L  examination,  which  had  been  specified  as  an  alternative 

qualification to obtaining the written proficiency  in the Second Language for certain public 

officers. Futhermore, other public officers, too, if they which to do so, have the opportunity to 

fulfill  the  relevant  written  proficiency  requirement  by  obtaining  a  pass  in  Sinhala/Tamil  as 

“Second  Language”  at  G.C.E.  O/L  examination,  instead  of  passing  the  written  tests 

conducted  by  the  Department  of  Official  Languages.  Therefore,  action  may  be  taken  to 

apprise the relevant officers of the aforesaid facts, as well as, the closing date of applications 

for the G.C.E. O/L examination, scheduled to be held in December 2013, being extended by 

the Commissioner General of Examinations, up to 05th of July 2013.  

 

03. 

An amended Circular, incorporating the proposals contained  in the  Report approved 

by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  referred  to  at  paragraph  01  above,  will  be  issued  in  the  near 

future.  

 

 
 
 

 

Sgd: P.B.Abeykoon 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs 

 

