Home Affairs Circular: 02/2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

           My No: HAF-1/09/විවිධVI 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Home Affairs  

Independence Square  

Colombo 07 

08.02.2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All District Secretaries 

All Divisional Secretaries 

Registrar General 

Implementation of the Proposed Programme to minimize the direct and indirect Health, 

Environmental and Social Effect of using Plastic and Polythene 

 
This is further to my letter No. HAF-1/09/විවිධ-IV dated 09.12.2015 on the above matter.  
 
A special program to minimize the health, environmental and social effect caused due to the 
use of plastic and polythene has to be  implemented as  follows, with effect  from 01 January 
2016. 
 
01. Productions  for  local use, sale and use of polythene or polythene  related products of 20 
micron or less thickness are prohibited as per the Special Gazette Notification No. 1466/5 
dated  10  October,  2006,  issued  under  National  Environment  Act  No.  47  of  1980. 
Accordingly,  the  prohibiting  of  use  or  carrying  into  your  institution,  of  bags  or  food 
wrappers  that  are  categorized  under  20  or  less  micron  polythene.  (with  effect  from  01 
January,  2016)  and  the  prohibition  of  sale  and  use  of  such  products  in  cafeterias  and 
market outlets situated within your organization.  

02. Restricting  the  carrying  of  polythene  bags  of  above  20  micron  thickness,  other  related 
products and plastics into office premises as much as possible and restricting the selling 
of such products.  

03. Encouraging  the  office  staff  to  adapt  themselves  for  the  use  of  alternative  wrappers  or 
reusable or biodegradable wrapping methods instead of plastic, polythene bags and food 
wrappers, in carrying food items into their office premises.    

04. As  open  incineration/burning  of  plastics  and  polythene  bags  would  emit  gases  such  as 
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs), Dioxin and  Furan etc., that are most harmful/toxic 
to human health, taking necessary action to hand them over to recycling centers without 
burning them in open air.  

I would appreciate if you could make necessary arrangements to inform the other institutions 
under your organization as well, in this regard. 
Your cooperation in implementing this program successfully is highly appreciated.  

 

J.J. Rathnasiri  
Secretary 
Ministry of Home Affairs  
 
Copies:  
                        02. Secretary to the Prime Minister 
 
 

01. Secretary to the President 

 

03. Secretary, Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment 

