Public Administration Circular Letter: 02/2022 
  

 

 

My No: EST-1/CIRL/03/0001 
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government  
Independence Square 
Colombo 07  

Secretaries of Ministries 
Provincial Chief Secretaries 
Heads of Departments 

 
2022.08.29 
 

 

Replying to the Letters, E-mails and Telephone Call Received from the Public  
 
Your attention is hereby drawn to the provisions in Public Administration Circular 23/97 dated 
27.11.1997  on  “Correspondence  in  Public  Offices”,  Public  Administration  Circular  11/2015 
dated 20.05.2015 on “Responsibilities of Public Officers and Rights of Service Recipients” and 
Public  Administration  Circular  25/2016  dated  20.12.2016  on  “Answering  Incoming  Telephone 
Calls to Government Institutions” 
 
02.  
I observe that due to the Covid-19 epidemic situation and the fuel crisis, there has been a 
delay  in  replying  to  letters,  e-mails  and  phone  calls  received  from  the  public  to  government 
agencies. I would like to emphasize that government officials are obliged to promptly respond to 
the  letters,  e-mails  and  phone  calls  sent  by  them,  rather  than  having  the  public  come  to  public 
institutions regularly to accomplish a certain task by spending their time, effort and money.  
 
03.   Accordingly, the following provisions should be  followed in  replying to  letters, e-mails 
and telephone calls addressed to government agencies. 
 

I.  Normal Tappol 

 
a)  Priority should be given to the letters sent to public institutions by the general public 
and  in  this  regard  your  attention  is  drawn  to  the  provisions  of  Chapter  XXVIII,  sub-
section  3:8  of  the  Establishment  Code  and  the  provisions  of  Public  Administration 
Circular  23/97  dated  27.11.1997.  Accordingly,  you  are  further  emphasized  that,  in  a 
situation that a final reply cannot be sent immediately, it is required to send an interim 
reply within a week stating that the letter was received and to send a final reply within 
four (04) weeks. 

 
b)  Further,  when  sending  replies  to  all  official  letters,  the  direct  telephone  number,  fax 
number  and  e-mail  address  of  the  staff  officer  in  charge  of  the  subject  should  be 
mentioned below the signature of the letter. 

II.  Email 

 
a)   The mail sent to the common e-mail addresses should be checked daily and an officer 
should  specially  be  appointed  for  the  purpose.  In  the  meantime,  mails  sent  to  the  e-
mail addresses of the staff officers should also be checked daily.  

 
b)  Thorough attention should be paid to reply to the letters sent to the e-mail addresses in 
above mentioned manner on the same day and interim reply should be sent indicating 
the  time  required  for  replying  whilst  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  the  mail  in  case 
where  it  is  not  possible  to  reply  on  the  same  day.  Further,  action  should  be  taken  to 
reply for such inquiries within a reasonable period within the informed time period.  

 
III.  Telephone Calls 

 
a)   Actions  should  be  taken  to  answer  all  the  telephone  calls  made  to  the  office  and  an 
officer should be appointed specially to answer such calls, if the numbers of incoming 
calls received by any institution/ division are high.  

 
b)   A specific officer should be appointed to register the incoming calls and such officer 
should be vigilant to note down the name of the caller, the matter and the telephone 
number to be replied.  

 
c)   Staff Officers/ Officers in charge of the subjects should take actions to reply within a 
reasonable period regarding the matters for which immediate replies cannot/ difficult 
to be made.   

 
 

 

Sgd/ M.M.P.K. Mayadunne 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

 

                                                                                       Telephone 

 
 

Fax   

 

Email       

: 0112-695738 
: 0112-695279 
: pubad.secretary@sltnet.lk 

