Public Administration Circular : 10/2022 
 

My No : EST-6/03/LEA/1060 
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government  
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
25.05.2022 

 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments 
 

Restricting the Calling of Staff in Public Institutions in order to Minimize the 

Expenses of the Government due to the Dearth of Resources  

 
Representations  have  been  made  by  various  parties  that  the  Public  Officers  have  to  face 
difficulties  in  reporting  for  duties  as  public  and  private  transport  services  are  not  operated 
properly due to the issues arisen in the supply of fuel. Further, the expenses of the government, 
which are made for fuel, electricity and water, should also be restricted during this crisis. 
 
Attention  of  the  cabinet  of  Ministers  has  been  paid  to  the  facts  mentioned  above  at  the 
02. 
cabinet meeting held on 23.05.2022 and a decision has been taken to restrict the calling of public 
officers for the duty so as not to cause any hindrance to the services delivered by public offices 
to  the  general  public.  Accordingly  you  are  hereby  informed  to  prepare  and  implement  an 
appropriate arrangement for calling only the officers, who are essential to ensure public services 
delivered  by  institutions  under  you  continuously,  for  duty  from  26.05.2022,  until  further 
instructions are provided in this regard.  
 
03. 
It  is  hereby  emphasized  that  attention  should  be  paid  also  to  the  Public  Administration 
Circular  04/2022 dated 08.03.2022 issued on saving electricity and fuel for the management of 
government expenses, when taking action in this regard. 
 
04. 
government. 
 

Further,  this  should  not  be  an  obstacle  for  the  maintenance  of  essential  services  of  the 

 

Sgd/ M.M.P.K. Mayadunne 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

