Public Administration Circular Letter : 01/2020 
 

My No: EST-1/MISCL/06/0032 
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs,  
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
29.04.2020 

 

Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces  
Heads of Departments/ District Secretaries 
Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards 
 
Resuming and maintaining the functions of Government Institutions during 

COVID-19 

 
Your  attention  is  hereby  drawn  to  the  guidelines  in  the  Circular  No.  PS/GPA  Circular/20/2020 
dated  18.04.2020 issued by  the  Secretary  to  H.E.  the  President  under the  title  ‘Guidelines to  be 
adhered by Government Offices during the opening of Districts for resumption of normal day to 
day activities during COVID-19’ 
    
02. 
following guidelines when calling officers and General Public to Government Institutions.   

Concurrently to the guidelines in the aforesaid Circular, it is essential also to adhere to the 

(a)  Washing facilities including soap etc. should be provided at the entrance to ensure the 
hygiene before entering the premises. For this purpose appropriate arrangement should 
be made to provide face masks, hand rub dispensers, disinfectants and sanitizers at the 
cost of the Government. 

 

(b)  Action  should  be  taken  to  provide  gloves  and  to  establish  disinfection  cubicles 

depending on the necessity.  

 

(c) 

 

Since the attire  and ornaments of the officers may serve as  a medium for them to be 
exposed  to  the  virus,  officers  should  be  vigilant  to  report  for  duty  wearing  modest 
attire free from all other non-essential ornaments. 

 

Eg: 

It is not compulsory for female officers to wear Saree or Osari and Tie for 
male staff officers.  

(d)  Flexible measures should be applied when calling Female officers, who are at present 
Pregnant  and  breastfeeding,  for  duty  and  further  calling  of  such  officers  for  duty 
should  be  avoided  as  far  as  possible  by  the  end  of  May.  If  they  are  called  for  duty, 
arrangements should be made for them to report at the service stations situated close to 
the residence. The female officers, who wish such attachment, should submit a written 
request  to  the  Head  of  the  Institution,  where  they  serve  and  the  salary  during  the 
period of attachment should be paid by their substantive service station. 

 

 

        Sgd/ S. Hettiarachchi 

      Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

