Engineering Services Circular No: 33 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My No: ES/J/05 (II) 

Engineering Services Division 

Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07 

24.12.2013 

To: All Secretaries of Ministries, Heads of Departments 

And Chief Secretaries of Provincial Councils who are employing 

Engineers of Sri Lanka Engineering Service. 

 

Revision of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service as per P.A.Circular no 06/2006 

(Gazette Extra Ordinary no 1836/6 dated 11/11/2013 and no 1840/2 dated 09/12/2013) 

 

The  service  minute  of  Sri  Lanka  Engineering  service  published  in  Government  Gazette  Extra 

Ordinary no 1836/6 dated 11/11/2013 and no 1840/2 dated 09/12/ 2013 is effective from 01.01.2006. 

However  the  tasks  which  were  to  be  finished  under  service  minute  existed  before  01.01.2006  but 

remaining unfinished should also be completed. 

 

02. Notifying the officers regarding the provisions of the circular. 

All 

the  officers 

in  Sri  Lanka  Engineering  Service  who  are  serving  at  your  Ministry  

/Department/Provincial  Council  shall  be  made  aware  of  this  circular  and  they  shall  be  informed  to 

perfect  the  specimen  from  attached  herewith  (Annexe  01)  and  to  submit  the  same  along  with  the 

copies of relevant documents.  This shall also be informed to the officers who are serving in Sri Lanka 

Foreign  Service,  on  long  term  leave  to  be  spent  out  of  the  country,  who  have  been  released 

temporarily to other institutions and staying abroad after obtaining leave in proper manner to be spent 

out of the country and to those interdicted or suspended  from service,  by registered post sent to the 

last address informed by them. 

 

03. Absorption 

Since the officers appointed to and serving in Sri Lanka Engineering service shall be absorbed into the 

grades  as  applicable  to  them  as  per  the  new  service  minute,  they  shall  be  informed  to  perfect  the 

specimen  form  attached  herewith,  affix  the  signature  before  the  Head  of  the  Institution/Department 

and  submit 

the  same 

to 

the  respective  Head  of  department.  Then 

the  Head  of 

the 

Department/Secretary  of  the  Ministry/Chief  Secretary  of  the  Provincial  Council  shall  take  action  to 

 

 1 

submit the original of the completed form along with his/her recommendation to the Secretary of the 

Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.  

 

With  the  filling  of  part  A  (Personal  Data)  of  the  specimen  form  and  the  part  relevant  to  the 

Class/Grade in which the officer is at present, the officer is considered as having expressed consent to 

be  absorbed  in  terms  of  this  service  minute  and  hence  action  will  be  taken  to  absorb  them  into 

relevant grades as applicable under new service minute. Further, if any officer wishes to retire without 

expressing  consent    for  absorption,  after  filling    part  A  of  this  specimen  form,    his/her  option  for 

retirement may be expressed under item 28 of the same part (item No 28of A-Personal Data). Action 

will  be  taken  to  allow  the  officers  who  expressed  option  for  retirement  to  retire  from  service 

accordingly. 

 

04. Submission of the declaration of preference 

1.  

When  the  declaration  of  preference  is  submitted  by  officers  as  per  above  specimen 

form, the Heads of Department shall consider the following matters. 

 

(a) Information included in the declaration form is correct and the officer has 

signed  the  declaration  in  the  presence  of  the  attesting  officer  on  the  date 

mentioned in the same. 

 

(b)  The  attesting  officer  has  attested,  dated  and  signed  the  form  and  placed 

the date /official stamp on the same. 

 

(c)A copy of the declaration form has been included in the personal file of the 

officer which is kept in his/her Department. 

 

II.  

The declaration of preference of the officers who have gone abroad shall be signed in 

the presence of the Head of the Srilankan Embassy in the respective country and then 

the  original  of  the  same  shall  be  attested  and  submitted  to  the  Secretary  of  the 

Ministry  of  Public  Administration  and  Home  Affairs  through  the  Head  of  the 

Department. 

 

 

 

05. Officers who do not declare the preference 

If any officer does not perfect and submit the specimen form even after notifying them in this regard, 

the Head of the respective Department shall take action to send a list of names of such officers to the 

Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.  

 2 

 

 

06. Alternative for retirement 

An  officer  who  is  in  service  as  at  the effective  date of  this  Service Minute,  but  has not reached  the 

optional  age  of  retirement  will  be  given  opportunity  to  express  his/her  option  to  retire  from  service 

under Section 7 of the Pension Minute on a request made by such officer. He/ she can exercise such 

option  within  five  years  from  the  date  of  publishing  of  the  Service  Minute  if  the  Public  Service 

Commission  is  satisfied  to  the  fact  that  an  adverse  effect  has  been  caused  by  the  provisions  of  this 

Minute, upto the extent such concession should be granted. 

  

07. Skill development and training for status of Chartered Engineer 

As  per  12.2  of  Sri  Lanka  Engineering  Service  Minute,  a  short  term  in  service  training  shall  be 

provided to the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service. This is a short term training which includes 

the subjects such as Departmental Procedural, Establishments Regulations and Financial Regulations. 

The  officers  in  Sri  Lanka  Engineering  Service  shall  be  grouped  under  each  category  (Civil  1,2..., 

Mechanical  1,2…,  Electrical  1,2,3…  and  Chemical  1)  based  on  the  fields  relevant  to  them  (Civil, 

Mechanical,  Electrical  and  Chemical)  and  attached  to  relevant  Department.  Accordingly,  it  is  the 

responsibility  of  the  Head  of  Department  to  provide  this  training  for  the  officers  in  Sri  Lanka 

Engineering  Service  who  are  categorized  in  the  above  manner  and  attached  to  relevant  Ministries/ 

Departments/Provincial Councils. 

 

Further, maintaining the full professional qualifications (Status of Chartered Engineer) continuously is 

a compulsory requirement for all the graded promotions in Sri Lanka Engineering Service. In order to 

obtain full professional qualifications, an Engineer shall have a training from an approved institution 

under  a  Chartered  Engineer  for  a  period  of  12  months  (In  two  terms  –  a  term  shall  be  at  least  of  6 

months)  on  Engineering  design.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Head  of  the  Institution  to  provide 

opportunity for such training. 

 

08. Implementation of the Official Language Policy 

It  is  also  the  responsibility  of  the  Head  of  the  Department  to  provide  the  facilities  to  each  officer 

concurrently to the in service training mentioned in 07 above to obtain a training enabling him/ her to 

acquire the  proficiency in other official languages as per Public  Administration Circular No. 7/2007 

and other circulars issued consequently. 

  

Further, since the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service are grouped under each category based on 

the  fields  which  are  applicable  to  them  and  attached  to  relevant  Departments,  the  Heads  of 

Departments  when  making  internal  transfers  within  the  Department  shall  take  action  to  follow  a 

transfer procedure which facilitates all the Engineers to acquire proficiency in official languages. 

 

 

 3 

The  extra  ordinary  Gazettes  No.  1836/6  dated  11.11.2013  and  No.  1840/2  dated  09.12.2013 

mentioned above can be downloaded from the web site www.documents.gov.lk.    

 

 

 

R A D Jayanthie 

 

 

 

 

Sgd/ P.B. Abeykoon 

Director Engineering Services 

 

Secretary 

                                                                Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs   

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 4 

 

 5 

 

 6 

 

 7 

 

 

 

 8 

