 
 
Public Administration Circular : 12/2021 

 

 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Secretaries to State Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments  
 

My No: EST-3/POLIC/04/0036 
Ministry of Public Services, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 

25.06.2021 

Revision of the duty leave granted to the officers entitled to Political Rights, 

who have been elected to office at Local Government Elections and 

appointed as  Mayor/ Chairman, Deputy Mayor/ Vice Chairman, Member of 

Urban Councils/Municipal Councils / Pradeshiya Sabhas 

 
Your  attention  is  hereby  drawn  to  Public  Administration  Circular  13/2007  dated  22.05.2007 
issued  revising  sub  section  2:3:4,  Chapter  XXXII  of  the  Establishments  Code  and  Public 
Administration Circular 32/91(III) dated 10.01.2008.   
 
02. 
A  decision  has  been  taken  at  the  meeting  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  held  on 
03.05.2021  to  revise  the  leave  of  five  days  with  full  pay  to  six  days,  which  is  given  to  a 
Member/  Vice  Chairman  of  a  Local  Government  Institution  as  per  the  sub  section  2:3:4, 
Chapter  XXXII  of  the  Establishments  Code  revised  by  the  Public  Administration  Circular 
13/2007  and  further  to  revise    the  leave  of  seven  days  with  full  pay  to  eight  days,  which  is 
given  to  a  Chairman  of  a  Local  Government  Institution  as  per  the  provision  of  Public 
Administration Circular 32/91(III).                    
 
Accordingly,  Establishments  Code  is  hereby  revised  in  the  following  manner  revising 
03. 
sub section 2:3:4, Chapter XXXII of the Establishments Code and with the inclusion of a new 
section as 2:3:5 immediately after the above sub section. 
 

"2:3:4 A public officer entitled to political rights and elected as a Deputy Mayor / 
Vice - Chairman, Member of a Municipal Council/ Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha, 
shall  be  granted,  subject  to  the  exigencies  of  service,  06  days  of  leave  with  pay  per 
month, for attending  the meetings  of the Local Government Body and performing  the 
duties connected to such meetings, whilst being in the post he had already been holding 
in the Public Service"  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

"2:3:5  The  officers  entitled  to  Political  Rights,  who  have  been  appointed  to  the 
post of   Mayor/ Chairman of a Local Government Institution, shall be granted 08 days 
of  leave  with  pay  per  month  to  perform  the  functions  of  such  Local  Government 
Institution whilst serving in the substantive post  

 

 

 

or 

 

 
In case where an officer, who does not exercise option to obtain above mentioned 
 
leave, is appointed to the post of Mayor/ Chairman of a Local Government Institution 
or appointed to act in such post, the whole period during which, the officers, who have 
exercised  their  option  to  obtain    no  pay  leave  ,  are  due  to  hold  such  post    shall  be 
informed  with  immediate  effect  to  the  Head  of  the  relevant  Department  by  the 
Secretary of the Local Authority specifying the date of commencement and closing of 
such  period.  The  officer  concerned  too  shall  inform  separately  his/her  Head  of  the 
Department the same. On receipt of such a notice, Head of the Department shall keep 
the officer on no pay leave during the relevant full period." 
 
These provisions shall be effective from 03.05.2021. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sgd/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Services, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

 

 

 
 

04. 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

