Public Administration Circular : 04/2022 

 

My number:IAD/ADS-2/Cabinet Papers/2020 
Ministry of Public Services,  
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07.  
 
08.03.2022 

 
Secretaries of Ministries 
Secretaries of State Ministries  
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments/ Government Agents 
Heads of Government Corporations and Statutory Boards 
Divisional Secretaries/ Heads of Institutions  
 

Saving Electricity and Fuel 

 

Reference the Cabinet  decision on the above matter, taken at  the meeting of the Cabinet of 
Ministers held on 07.03.2022. 
 
02. 
Certain importations have to be restricted due to the issue of foreign currency which is 
the result of the decrease in the revenue of the government and increase in the expenditure for 
imports  in  the  face  of  the  Covid  19  pandemic,  which  emerged  two  years  ago  and  is  still 
spreading.   

 
03. 
The  foreign  exchange  crisis  has  had  an  adverse  effect  on  fuel  importation  in  a 
situation  where  the  total  fuel  requirement  of  the  country  is  satisfied  from  importation. 
Therefore, saving fuel  and the electricity  generated by imported fuel  is  the responsibility of 
all parties. 

 
Accordingly, it is  hereby informed to  follow the  below-mentioned instructions  at  all 

04. 
public institutions with regard to consumption of electricity and fuel. 
 

4.1   Saving electricity 

 

(a)   Conservation of energy 

 
i.  Minimizing the usage of elevators and using stairways as far as possible. 
 
ii.  Operating  the  elevator  with  maximum  number  of  persons  following  health 
guidelines depending on the capacity of the elevator instead of using it for one 
person. 
 

iii.  Using an electric fan instead of air conditioners for the whole place when only 

one or two persons are on duty. 

iv.  All the electrical appliances should be turned off whenever the officers are not 
at  their  offices  and  the  office  employees  should  be  informed  to  act 
accordingly.  The  officers  should  see  to  ensure  that  all  the  electric  appliances 
are on turned off mode when they leave the office. 

 
v.  Attention  should  be  paid  to  purchase  energy  efficient  and  eco-  friendly 

appliances.  

vi.  Special attention should be paid to apply solar power for the power generation 
at  offices.  The  usage  of  solar  power  should  be  promoted  since  it  is  an  eco-
friendly power source that minimizes greenhouse gas emission.  

(b)   Lighting  

i. 

To switch off unnecessary electric bulbs – installing a separate switch for each 
bulb.  

 
ii.  To get more natural light wherever possible or using sky lights.  

(ex : Solar tube type, Prismatic type) 

 
iii.  To control the day light properly using blind louvers. 
 
iv.  To take action to switch off normal  electric bulbs while using table lamps as 
far  as  possible.  Instructions  should  be  given  to  the  watcher  and  relevant 
employees to switch on bulbs only at the most essential places during the night 
time. 
 
Implementing  special  programmes  to  switch  off  street  lamps,  which  are 
managed by Local Government Institutions, when not necessary.    

v. 

vi.  To switch off all the street lamps except the street lamps at the roads in high 

security and security zones as a temporary measure.  

 
(c)   Usage of Air Conditioner 
 

i. 

Paying attention to switch off air conditioners from 2.30 p.m. up to 4.30 p.m. 
 

ii.  Opening windows in the morning for natural air since the outside temperature 
is low during that time and then turning on air conditioners one hour after the 
commencement of office work.  

 
iii.  Maintaining  the  temperature  of  air  conditioner  to  260C  or  more  and  relative 

humidity between 55% - 60%. 

Installing  outdoor  louvers  for  air  -  conditioned  rooms  since  the  rooms  are 
overheated  by  the  direct  sunlight  on  glass  windows  or  sticking  sun  control 
films on window glasses.  

iv. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v.  Carrying out periodical maintenance of air conditioners and cleaning air filters 

once in two months. 

vi.  Using  electric  fans  as  far  as  possible  instead  of  air  conditioners.  (Energy 

efficiency of table fans and pedestal fans is higher than ceiling fans.)  

vii.  Selecting  air  conditioners  with  inverters  or  energy  efficient  air  conditioners 

when purchasing such items.  

 

viii.  To take action to close down the offices after office hours and close the offices 
during weekends as far as possible except the occasions where essential works 
are to be performed and where certain works cannot be postponed.  

4.2   Saving fuel  

The  number  of  vehicles  in  running  condition  which  belong  to  public 
institutions is more than 75,000. If it is possible to save one liter of fuel from 
each  vehicle  per  day,  a  total  of  75,000  liters  of  fuel  can  be  saved. 
Approximately, 27,375,000 liters of fuel (27 Mn litres) can be saved annually. 
Therefore, an appropriate arrangement should be made making all the officers 
and drivers aware in this regard.   
 
Suspending  temporarily  the  fuel  in  addition  to  the  prescribed  volume  for  the 
ministers and public officers to whom vehicles are assigned  

i. 

ii. 

 

iii.  Restricting  as  far  as  possible  the  calling  of  officers  from  distant  areas  out  of 
Colombo  to  the  offices  in  Colombo  for  discussions  and  meetings.  Further, 
restricting  the  calling  of  divisional  officers  for  discussions  and  meetings  at 
district and provincial level. Restricting such calling only for highly essential 
matters and arranging several meetings on such days of calling.   

 

iv.  Applying technologies such as Zoom and Teams for conducting meetings and 

discussions as far as possible.  

v. 

 

Encouraging  as  far  as  possible  the  modern  communication  tools  such  as  E-
mail, WhatsApp and SMS and inducing officers as well as the general public 
to  use  such  methods  instead  encouraging  outsiders  to  visit  public  offices  for 
official matters. 

vi.  Using one vehicle for a group instead of using separate vehicles for officers in 

case where the officers should come for duties from outside areas.  

 

vii.  Minimizing the long distance travelling of the officers, who are serving in the 
Head  Offices,  for  duties.  Getting  the  field  duties  outside  Colombo  as  far  as 
possible  performed  by  the  Government  Agent/  Divisional  Secretary  and  the 
officers of the relevant district / province. Using photos, maps and technology 
for this purpose.   

viii.  Making  arrangements  to  conduct  meetings  outside  rush  hours  enabling  the 

officers to participate in essential meetings without inconvenience.  

 
ix. 

 
x. 

 
xi. 

 

Planning  the  field  duties  to  be  carried  out  within  the  Divisional  Secretary’s 
Divisions or district maintaining proper inter coordination and minimizing the 
usage of vehicles irrespective of the differences among institutions.  

Taking action to provide pool vehicles by the Administration division with the 
preparation  of  transport  plan  ensuring  the  usage  of  a  minimum  number  of 
vehicles  by  way  of  obtaining  in  advance  the  particulars  such  as  the  required 
time  and  the  destination.  The  close  supervision  of  a  staff  officer  should  be 
ensured in this regard.  

Selecting low traffic times as far as possible when providing pool vehicles for 
transport facilities. 

xii.  Using high - fuel efficient vehicles for transport as far as possible. 

 

xiii.  Using motorcycles, bicycles or three-wheelers etc. instead of cars or vans for 

duties such as collection and delivery of tappal.  

 
xiv.  Maintaining  a  fuel  reserve  at  selected  filling  stations  to  provide  fuel  without 
any  shortage  to  the  required  sectors  in  order  to  maintain  health,  security  and 
other essential services.  

 

xv. 

 
xvi. 

Ensuring  supervision  of  a  representative  of  the  Divisional  Secretary  and  a 
police  officer  at  all  the  filling  stations  in  order  to  verify  that  required  fuel 
reserves  are  maintained  and  the  fuel  distribution  is  maintained  in  a  proper 
way.  

Preparation  of  appropriate  programmes  with  the  assistance  of  the  officers  of 
the relevant ministries in order to issue fuel to the farmers in the areas where 
harvesting has been started and further to the fisheries community  

 
05. 
A  special  methodology  should  be  adopted  to  inspect  the  amount  saved  in  the 
subsequent month in relation to the previous month from the electricity bills, fuel bills, water 
bills and telephone bills of the public institutions.  
 
You  are  kindly  informed  to  follow  as  public  officers  the  above  -  mentioned 
06. 
instructions setting an example to other parties and further to encourage others in this regard.   
 
 
 

Sgd/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Services, 

Provincial Councils and Local Government 

