Public Administration Circular Letter : 03/2016 

My No: EST-7/UNIFO/06/V 

Ministry of Public Administration  

and Management 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07. 

 

29.08.2016 

Secretaries to the Ministries 

Chief Provincial Secretaries 

Heads of Departments 

 

 

Uniforms and Tailoring Fees for Drivers and Minor Staff Grades 

Your  attention  is  drawn  to  Public  Administration  Circular  05/2013  dated  22.04.2013  on  the 

above matter.  

 

02. 

Various institutions have made inquiries from time to time regarding the provisions of 

uniform allowance for officers of Office Employees’ Service as mentioned in the said circular. 

Accordingly you are informed that uniform allowance and tailoring fees are entitled only to the 

officers serving in  the  following posts of Office  Employees’ Service  as per the provisions of 

Chapter XXI of the Establishments Code and Public Administration Circulars issued so far on 

uniforms and tailoring fees. 

 

 

03. 

I.  Officers in Grade II of Office Employees’ Service. 

II.  Officers of Office Employees’ Service who have been appointed to  Grade  I, but 

employed in a post of Grade II.  

III.  Officers of office Employees’ Service who are given the designation of Arachchi 

and performing duties in the said post. 

IV.  Watcher 

Further, the posts belonging to each Grade as per Office Employees’ Service Minute are 

as follows; 

             Grade  

 

   Special Grade 

 

   Grade I 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   Grade II 

 

 

 

 

   Grade III 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Posts 

Chief Karyala Karya Sahayake  (Arachchi) 

Telephone Operator 

Record Keeper 

Book Binder 

Roneo Machine Operator 

Photocopy Machine Operator 

Karyala Karya Sahayake 

Cycle Orderly 

Messenger 

Office Labourer 

Sweeper 

Garden Labourer 

Office Watcher 

Sanitary Labourer  

 

04. 

Necessary action should be taken to provide the uniforms and tailoring fees only to the 

officers who are entitled to the same, paying attention to the above.   

 

 

 

            Sgd/ J.J. Rathnasiri 

         Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration and Management 

