Public Administration Circular Letter : 02/2019 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My Number: Pns/P8/02/18 

Ministry of Public Administration and 

Disaster Management 

Independence Square 

Colombo 07. 

        

 

30.05.2019 

Secretaries of Ministries 

Chief Secretaries of Provinces 

District Secretaries 

All Heads of Departments 

Divisional Secretaries 

 

 

Widening the Opportunities of preventing the Fraudulent Payment of Pension for the 

Pensioners, who have demised 

In  addition  to  the  Public  Administration  Circulars  No:  19/2006.  01/2008,  11/2009  and 

16/2009  issued  by  the  Director  General  of  Pensions  with  the  aim  of  maintaining  the  process  of 

paying  the  pension  continuously  and  more  efficiently.  Instructions  have  been  given  by  the  said 

circulars  to  obtain  the  life  certificate  and  instructions  have  been  issued  by  Pension  Circular  No: 

09/2014  to  the  effect  that  action  will  be  taken  to  hold  the  pension  of  the  pensioners,  who  do  not 

provide life certificates. 

 

02. 

The  measures  followed  by  the  Department  of  Pensions  at  present  to  obtain  life  certificates 

with  regard  to  the  Sri  Lankan  pensioners,  who  are  living  abroad,  should  be  further  implemented 

without any change. 

 

03. 

The following instructions are issued to grant the opportunity for the pensioners’ community 

to enjoy their life after retirement by making the process available at present more efficient.   

 

 

1 

04. 

The Divisional Secretaries should make sure to take action as per order No:292 of the manual 

including the regulations prepared by the Registrar General’s Department for guiding the marriage, 

birth and death registrars in order to obtain records on demised pensioners living in Sri Lanka. The 

said Order No:292 is as follows; 

 

“In the event of registering a death by the Registrar, it should be inquired without delay whether 

the person, who has demised, has been receiving a pension from the government. Once the death 

of a person receiving  a  pension from  the  government is  registered, it should  be reported to  the 

District Registrar (To the Registrar General, if Medical Registrars in Colombo) without delay by 

filling a Form B73 (along with three copies). If the demised person possessed a pension card, it 

should be obtained and sent along with the report whenever possible. 5th cage in the form should 

be used to indicate the following facts.  

 

1.  Number and date of the place where the death is registered 

2.  Number of the pension card 

3.  Office by which the pension is paid to the demised pensioner” 

 

When  obtaining  the  above  report  from  the  Registrars,  instructions  should  be  given  by  the  relevant 

Divisional Secretaries to the Registrars and Medical Registrars, who are under their administration, 

to obtain the National Identity Card number of the demised pensioner in addition to the above details 

and send a copy of Form B73, by which the Medical Registrars in Colombo report to the Registrar 

General. It is advisable to obtain this report once a week. 

     

05. 

Every  Grama  Niladhari  should  send  a  report  on  the  deaths,  which  occur  within  the  Grama 

Niladhari  Division,  to  the  Registrar  relevant  to  the  respective  Grama  Niladhari  Division,  as  per 

Section  46  (I)  of  the  Births  and  Deaths  Registration  Act  in  accordance  with  the  legal  process  on 

registration  of  deaths  in  Sri  Lanka.  Accordingly,  when  a  death  is  reported  to  the  Registrars  by  the 

Grama Niladharies, they should inquire on whether the person demised has been receiving a pension 

from  the  government.  If  yes,  particulars  such  as  the  name,  National  Identity  Card  number  of  the 

demised  person  and  the  office  to  which  the  pension  has  been  paid  should  be  reported  to  the 

Divisional Secretaries. 

 

2 

06. 

Divisional Secretaries should take immediate action to examine the reports received from the 

Registrar of Deaths and Grama Nilasharies and get the register of persons, who receive the pension, 

updated. If in case, it is reported by the above reports on the death of a pensioner, who has received 

the  pension  from  another  Divisional  Secretariat,  the  Divisional  Secretaries  should  take  action  to 

inform the said particulars to the relevant Divisional Secretary.  

 

07. 

Incidents  of  fraudulent  use  of  public  money  by  other  parties  have  been  reported,  since  the 

particulars  on  the  death  of  a  pensioner  or  a  widow/  widower  and  orphans  or  differently  able 

beneficiary  are  not  reported  properly.  Therefore,  it  is  emphasized  that  it  is  compulsory  to  take  the 

above  measures  and  attention  is  hereby  drawn  to  take  every  possible  step  to  prevent  misuse  of 

money.  

 

08. 

Action  should  be  taken  without  delay  to  inform  the  Divisional  Secretary  by  the  relevant 

Grama  Niladharies  on  leaving  the  residence  or  country  by  a  pensioner  or  a  person  receiving  the 

widow/ widower and orphans’ pension benefits.  

 

09. 

It  is  hereby  emphasized  that  the  relevant  officers  should  be  personally  responsible  with 

regard  to  the  fraudulent  payments  made,  because  of  not  properly  reporting  the  deaths,  leaving  of 

residences or country as mentioned above.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J.J. Rathnasiri 

Secretary 

Ministry of Public Administration and 

Disaster Management 

Copies: 

 

01. Secretary, Ministry of Internal and Home Affairs and Provincial Councils and Local Government 

– To raise the awareness as required at the Government Agents’ Conference and further instruct 

and assign responsibilities to issue a formal circular in order to provide further instructions to the 

Registrars 

02. Director  General  of  Pensions  –  To  prepare  a  methodology  to  properly  update  the  particulars 

received as per this circular in the database on pension and provide the required instructions               

 

3 

